Shields and deflectors up, sir.
Sir, sickbay reports Lieutenant Torres's condition is better.
And now a personal request, sir. Permission to clean up the bridge.
Sir, respectfully submit our only choice is to fight.
Aye, sir.
Engine room ready, sir.
Velocity warp nine point two.
We're now at warp nine point three, sir, which takes us past the redline, sir.
We're at nine point four, sir.
Our velocity is only nine point five, sir.
I am a Klingon, sir. For me to seek escape when my Captain goes intobattle.
Aye, sir.
Understood, Captain.
Yes sir?
Commander Data is on special assignment, sir. He's using our shuttlecraftto transfer an admiral over to the Hood.
He's been aboard all day, sir, checking over medical layout.
I suppose he could, sir, but the Admiral's a rather remarkable man.
Sorry, sir
I will learn to do better, sir.
Tell me the location of Commander Data.
You and I will start with topside.
You have a perimeter alert, sir.
Vessel unknown, configuration unknown, sir.
We've been trying, sir. No response.
Shields up, sir. Phasers ready.
Definitely entering orbital trajectory, sir.
Sensors say we were just scanned, sir.
There is no computer record of any such vessel, sir. Nothing even close.
Our sensor signals seem to just bounce off. Something's happening, sir.
Wait, sir. They're hitting the old Bandi city, not Farpoint Station.
Sir, they're firing on the planet again.
Aye, sir. Impulse power to  We have no ship control, sir. It'sgone!
First officer to Enterprise. We'velost Zorn. Something like a transporter beam seems to have snatched him away.
Captain!
Sensor scan now reveals no life signs aboard, Captain.
Sir, I'm getting very strange reports from all decks.
Such as the ship's Training Division ordering all officers to attend alecture on metaphysics.
I don't understand their humour either.
Captain, getting unusual readings now from the dwarf star.
Sir. The star. It's beginning to collapse.
Captain, tractor beam. We just locked onto the Tsiolkovsky.
Bridge to Riker, Urgent.
WORF : Sir.
Sir, regret to inform you that the Captain appears to be infected. And
What we're seeing, sir, is a huge chunk of the star's surface blown away,heading for us.
Controls are still offline, sir.
Same result, sir.
Sir, I estimate fourteen minutes until that mass gets here.
Do we owe our thanks to Commander Data, sir?
Did he say Wesley? The boy?
Captain, main Engineering is ready to proceed.
Captain, can you allow a man who has made one mistake back into aposition where he may make another?
A Klingon Targ! My pet. From home, but when I was a child.
Yes, I suppose you could call it that.
In visual range, Captain.
They are firing on us.
They're firing again.
Immobilised by the damn Ferengi.
Negative, sir.
Uncle who?
I say fight, sir. There's nothing shameful in falling before a superiorenemy.
Yes! Hit them hard and hit them fast.
We ask to surrender and now they fire on us?
If the Ferengi ship's sensors can read us, sir, they will be waitinguntil we are most vulnerable.
Pygmy cretins!
No! For battle, come to me!
Simple, Geordi. Our Captain wants his junior officers to learn, learn,learn.
What? Where am I?
I remember monitoring the sensor console. What am I doing here?
Sir, warp power is fading.
Warp five, four, three, two
Engineering to Captain Picard. Security alert.
Lieutenant Worf, sir. I just found Mister Singh. He's dead.
Singh probably repaired it just before he was killed.
Engineering to Bridge. We now have warp capacity, sir. All power on line.
You wanted me, Doctor?
I still don't remember having one.
What is it?
Bridge to Captain. You're needed here immediately.
Helm is down, sir. There's no apparent reason.
Captain! I'll help you if you'll let me.
Sir? On my sensor controls.
It's the faulty reading I reported, sir.
Careful, sir.
 Nice planet.
When in where, sir?
I am not concerned with pleasure, Commander. I am a warrior.
For what we consider love, sir, I would need a Klingon woman.
Of course, but with the females available to me, sir, Earth females, Imust restrain myself too much. They are quite fragile, sir.
Bragging, sir?
Including Wesley, the boy? He's outside.
Can I take a moment of your time, Lieutenant?
Death?
Anyone who commits any crime in the punishment zone dies?
We'd better find Wesley.
Punishment? If you mean what the others were talking about.
Drop it. Drop it now!
I can't believe they're coming here.
We are receiving no signal at all from the approaching starship, sir.
The rest of the ship is clear of surprises, Lieutenant Yar.
Yes. Including a fairly heavy chest.
His chest from the Stargazer, sir? Just where I had left it. He hadn'tyet unpacked.
It reads solid, sir.
If your game is fair, we will.
Drop your weapons!
A warrior's reaction.
Sir, what they're wearing may be old Earth uniforms, but what's inside ofthem isn't human at all. More like vicious animal things.
He was with us.
No.
Flim-flam?
No! She is from a world now alien to me!
This is sex. But I have no place for it in my life now.
Sir, look out!
Automobiles?
Ah.
Aye, sir. Standard orbit.
Were you ever this anxious to please, Data?
Where he examined some micro-miniature work tools, and some fine grindquadratanium ?
This is strange, sir. I show Commander Data transmitting on a subspacechannel.
Weapons now ready, sir.
Klingons appreciate strong women.
Trouble, Captain?
Hmm, yes. Slightly reminiscent of night blooming throgni, Captain. Fromhome. Quite stimulating, wouldn't you say?
Bridge to Captain Picard.
The away team requests that we scan the planet surface for traces ofplatinum.
Aye, Captain. Geordi.
I think I may sneeze.
Only kind I know.
Scanners indicate a platinum trace. Should I notify the away team?
Engineering reports a computer malf  I'm sorry, I'm getting sick.
With all respect, Lieutenant, there are people to do that job now.
Rest assured, Commander, we will be victorious. At whatever the cost.
If winning is not important, then, Commander, why keep score?
What's going on?
Why?
Aye, Lieutenant.
Did you see the Captain and Commander Riker?
Yes. Sir, where is your transporter room?
They would answer if they could. Someone else has control of the ship.
We've just completed a remote power feed to the life support systems.
Aye, sir.
It generates enough energy to interfere with the surrounding systems.
I cannot understand the patterns.
Conductor. But is it alive?!
I wasn't asking you.
What do you expect? It is computer.
Maybe the life-form has reached its energy level.
Captain, I'm recording a distortion in quadrant one, mark nine zero.
We're being scanned, sir.
Captain!
Sir, similar incidents all decks, but only with the children.
Captain, Saucer Section reports six more children are gone.
What was that?
Transporter room, now!
Ensign, what are you doing on the holodeck? I thought you were still on
I've disturbed you. I'll leave.
How is the testing?
Why?
Do those things frighten you?
The psych test is no more or less important than the rest of the process.
Thinking about what you can't control only wastes your energy and createsits own enemy.
By analysing your psychological profile. They were very accurate abouteveryone I tested with. Including myself.
Only fools have no fear.
It is very difficult for me to depend on anyone for anything. Butespecially for my life.
Yes.
No. It is still my enemy.
Too late. He's using the flight emergency override
Tractor beam?
By accident, sir.
No. Meaning by accident, sir.
Is it required, sir?
Captain. Communication from Starfleet. They have reported a disturbancein the Neutral Zone.
A battle. Quadrant nine, coordinates zero seven zero, mark three. There'sno information who is involved. They are asking if we can investigate.
Negative, sir.
Nothing yet, sir.
Captain, possible life signs.
The readings emanate from a location near what is left of main
WORF : This is the Bridge.
WORF : We are receiving. The signal is strong.
Sir, the Engineering section is critical. Destruction of the Batris isimminent.
Captain. Request permission to join you.
Debris is still being analysed.
Aye, sir.
The weapons were not Ferengi.
I am Lieutenant Worf.
Yes.
Still, your weapons were limited and their ship superior.
Permission to show our guests to their quarters, Captain.
As far as I know, I am the only one.
Why do you mock me? Why do you wish to anger me?
It is.
If the opponent was not an enemy, who was it? Tell me. What reallyhappened?
Through an act of kindness. The Romulans attacked the Khitomer outpost.
Before the age of inclusion.
When my foster brother and I were of age, we entered the Starfleet
Hardly none.
Yes. Yes, those feelings are part of me. But I control them. They do notrule me.
I have been in battle.
Yes, I do.
You did not battle the Ferengi.
You destroyed a Klingon vessel?
Yes, of course.
Perhaps your dreams of glory no longer fit the time. They belong buriedwith the past.
Yes. When relieved of its bulk, the Enterprise becomes an exceptionalweapon.
What is the problem?
Oh?
That is not our way. Cowards take hostages. Klingons do not.
They will be tried and executed, sir.
Thank you, sir. Are there no other options, sir?
Captain. Request permission to address the Captain on the Klingon vessel.
K'Mongi B'Mus.
To plead.
Yes, they must be punished, but not executed with dishonour.
What burns in their eyes, fires my soul. I hear their words, and I see itall as it was. Part of me longs for that time.
Then send them to a planet in the Halee system, where they can meet deathon their feet with a weapon in their hands, not tied and helpless.
Yes.
Sir.
Captain, permission to leave the Bridge.
Captain, let me talk to him.
He will wait only as long as he believes it is to his advantage. Themoment it is not, he will fire his phaser into the dilithium crystal chamber.
Yes. He knows.
What will work?
Captain Picard will not comply.
Put down the phaser.
Believe it.
My brother, it is you who does not see. You look for battles in the wrongplace. The test of the warrior is not without, it is within. Here, here we meetthe challenge. It is the weaknesses in here a warrior must overcome.
You have talked of glory and of conquest and legends we will write.
Yet in all you say, where are the words duty, honour, loyalty. Withoutwhich a warrior is nothing.
Put down the phaser.
Perhaps not.
Yes, Commander?
They died well.
I am honoured. Thank you.
I was just being polite, sir.
Really. I have no desire to leave the Enterprise.
Commander, weren't you offered the Drake?
War?
I am picking up energy readings.
Shields just came on. Deflectors also up. I'm picking up an object offthe port bow. It's firing!
Phasers ready. Photon torpedoes standing by. Locking on target.
Scanning. No readings yet. Wait. Something dead astern.
Object is firing.
No use. It's gone again. SOLIS: Aft shields weakened. Whatever they'reusing, our shields can't stand up to it much longer.
Locking in. The object has vanished.
Phaser lock lost.
It's cloaked itself.
Aye. Solis, correlate the trajectory of the energy bolts with the attackpath. I'll compute the optimum spread of phasers and photon torpedoes to hitit.
It's impossible to be sure.
Programme laid in. Phasers and photon torpedoes ready.
Phasers and photons firing. We missed.
Deflectors are breaking down. We have less than one minute of reserve.
Ensign, secure connector levels.
Separation complete.
Phasers at full readiness.
You hope our attacker will follow us into the atmosphere.
Fast.
Deflectors nearing overload.
We're about to lose number four deflector.
Deflector four is now inoperative.
Weapons locked.
Got him!
Routine deep sensor probe indicates no obstacles or vessels within arange of three light years.
The martial arts competition is in three days. Are you prepared?
A valid assumption. Who is your first competitor?
You will defeat him easily.
You are favoured in the ship's pool.
A sure thing.
Sir, I'm receiving an emergency transmission from the shuttle.
I've located the shuttle.
Not yet, sir. Still probing. It appears to be buried under a lot ofdebris. I may have something, sir. Faint life signs. Very faint.
There's no way of telling from here.
Aye, sir.
I will do my best, sir.
I will remain on the ship. The object here is not to engage the creaturein battle. The goal is the safe return of Counsellor Troi and Lieutenant
Captain, look at this. The force of the energy field around theshuttlecraft decreased for a few moments when the creature was draped over it.
Almost.
Aye, sir.
Captain, perhaps you should look at this. We have the chart of the energyfield surrounding the shuttle.
Yes, but there is a pattern. Here is when it killed Lieutenant Yar, andhere is when it absorbed Commander Riker.
Both times it had enveloped the shuttle.
WORF : Aye, sir.
The forcefield will have to drop below two point seven before we can beamthem up.
Set the computer. When the energy level reaches two point six point twozero five, automatically beam up Troi and Prieto. We'll do a parallel transporton the Captain.
The energy level has dropped to two point six point three.
Energy field is two point six. Computer beginning transport.
The X-ray burst is disrupting systems, Captain. I'm adjusting deflectorsto compensate.
WORF : Engineering, increase power to forward shields.
All systems operational, sir.
Captain, I have intercepted what appears to be a distress signal.
It is a freighter, very old.
Captain, the freighter's orbit is decaying.
A matter of minutes.
Captain, the freighter's orbit continues to deteriorate.
The freighter has entered the planet's atmosphere. Disintegration isimminent.
WORF : One minute, twenty eight seconds.
Sir, the hull temperature of the freighter is passing three thousanddegrees.
Sir, the freighter is disintegrating.
I will continue this in the guest quarters. Commander,
Reports from all decks coming in, sir.
Sir, I am receiving an emergency transmission from the Pegos Minorsystem.
It is an automated signal, sir. I am unable to establish contact.
I'm receiving new coordinates. It's a relay signal. Same source as thefirst one.
Six six four point eight by one three two three point seven by four ninefour nine point nine.
Viewscreen on. There's a small forcefield on the planet. Latitude twentydegrees, nine minutes north. Longitude forty degrees, two minutes east of thepresent terminator.
Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Force field is off.
Yes, sir?
Aye, sir.
Swimming is too much like bathing.
Captain, sensors are detecting three Federation starships already inorbit around the planet.
Two are frigates. The Renegade commanded by Tryla Scott, and the Thomas
Attempts at communication have been ignored by all three vessels.
Captain, I am picking up an unusual disturbance in a nearby quadrant.
Hard to say at this distance, sir.
Sensors beginning to pick up small objects, sir.
It looks like debris. From a space vessel of some kind.
Nothing so far. Sensors not detecting any bodies in the flotsam, but fromthe amount of wreckage. I'm sorry sir. It can only be the Horatio. From thelooks of it, she's been totally destroyed.
I don't like it. You can't trust them.
Are you all right?
What is he?
Doctor?
At its present speed and heading, it will eventually enter the Kazisbinary system and will certainly be destroyed. I could attach a tractor beamand adjust its heading.
The last communication indicated it would be several hours.
Aye, sir.
Commander, look at this.
It must be sealed, probably with age. 
Here's another.
Commander, look at this.
Were they frozen for an extended journey?
Romulans.
We could get out there and find ourselves greatly over-matched.
We are six hours from the Neutral Zone. I have been unable to establishcommunications with any Federation colony or station in this vicinity.
Nine.
I agree with Commander Riker. This may be our only opportunity. We shouldseize it.
The outpost was not just destroyed, it's as though some great force justscooped it off the face of the planet.
Insufficient information, sir.
Everyone and everything is gone.
I agree, Captain. I recommend we go immediately to battle stations.
Captain, my sensors indicate a disturbance. It is large and moving, but Icannot get a positive lock nor can I get it on the viewscreen.
Aye, sir.
I have a positive lock. They're disengaging their cloaking device.
Captain, this may be our only chance.
The signal is weakening.
I've lost them.
Captain, they're back.
Captain, these are Romulans. They are without honour. They killed myparents in an attack on Khitomer when they were supposed to be our allies. Theybelieve humans and Klingons are a waste of skin.
Hailing frequencies open.
Even so, what gives them the right to enter Federation space?
Hailing frequencies opened.
 Not the best way to meet your new Captain.
Captain, obviously the pregnancy must be terminated for the safety of theship and crew.
That is the safest assumption.
If the foetus is aborted, laboratory analysis is still possible.
Hailing frequencies open.
I will accept that responsibility.
No, Commander. Usually my calisthenics are more intense, but thosesessions are too personal to be shared.
Computer. Programme complete. Save. Coming Commander?
It's gone.
Recommend we go to a Yellow Alert, sir.
Sorry, sir. It's
My thoughts were of an old Klingon legend of a gigantic black spacecreature which was said to devour entire vessels.
Sorry, Commander. I agree these are thoughts hardly worthy of a trainedand practical Security Officer.
Launching, sir.
Recommend we fire a photon torpedo, Captain.
Captain, sensors indicate a disturbance in sector one zero eight.
The ship is equipped with a cloaking device.
It's closing.
Main viewer locked onto coordinates.
It's uncloaking.
Direct hit, sir. Our shields are weakening.
Transmitting. They've armed another full spread, sir.
Captain, there's another vessel approaching in sector zero nine one, marktwo six.
I am acquainted with the Yamato, Commander. Recommend the aft station oftheir bridge. When in doubt, surprise them.
Whoever may be there.
Still, the tactic is sound.
I heard you screaming. I was coming to help.
Nothing on my communicator, sir.  Computer on.
That's not where we came from.
Two Bridges?
On the Bridge.
It's up to you, sir. 
Is it the same Bridge?
Sir.
Commander.
What's going on? A ship has one Bridge. One Bridge! One Riker, one
This is impossible. Impossible!
 At ease, Lieutenant. At ease.
Captain, look.
Let me put up the shields, sir.
In a battle for survival, Captain, thirty to fifty percent casualties
But within acceptable limits.
What was that?
An odd surge of power, sir. It's gone now.
Sir, I can lead a security team to sweep the holodeck, find the Doctor,and bring her out.
Thank you. Captain, I will be standing by to assist you if needed.
Here, sir.
No, sir.
I can affect this vessel, and I can inflict bodily harm on you, andon your Doctor.
Unidentified vessel approaching.
One life sign aboard, sir. It appears to be humanoid.
Confirmed. Armed with lasers only.
Hailing frequencies open.
Sir, recommend limited access to our ship.
Your weapons, please.
Yes.
We have an unidentified at twelve mark four. No response to our enquiries.
Extending.
Still no response. Captain, they are now locking lasers on us.
Yes, sir.
Still no response to our hail, sir.
Sir, we are now being hailed.
Open, sir.
Mute.
Another glob fly.
Open, sir
Mute.
Captain Okona has not responded, sir. He's been reported in threedifferent crew quarters.
Yes, sir.
You will come with me to the main Bridge.
Now!
I'd like that. But I have my orders.
Definitely.
Captain Picard, this is Thadium Okona.
Which ship?
The captain of the other ship is demanding to be heard.
Yes, sir.
Mute.
Aye, sir.
This way.
I was sougly as a child they hung a pork chop around my neck  so the dog wouldplay with me.  And then there was the human cannonball who washired and fired in the same night. Audience programme off. Discontinue Comic.
We're ready to get underway, sir.
Nothing sir. Not since their initial communication.
We are receiving a transmission from Gravesworld, sir. It's unfocused.
Our records show that she and Graves are the only ones living on theplanet, Captain.
Captain, I am picking up another signal, but it is not from the planet.
The signal is very weak, sir. Audio only.
Agreed, sir.
For a moment, you were.
No need, Commander.
Hardly.
Must I stand here and be insulted?
Gone?
WORF : Worf here, sir. Acknowledged.
Worf to Captain Picard.
WORF : Commander Data has left Ten forward. Should I follow?
Coordinates have been input, sir.
None.
No.
I am not expecting battle.
Riva.
Before him, there was no Klingon word for peacemaker.
Aye, sir.
Sir.
With your permission, Captain.
Enterprise, this is the away team. Seven to beam up.
Captain, I'm reading laser activity on the Solais Five.
It is localised, but very intense.
I'm receiving one side only.
The other faction is breaking through, sir.
The quality of the transmission is very poor.
The laser fire has ceased.
Yes, sir.
They're coming, Commander.
Interesting. A technique of communication which is both silent andcovert. It could be very useful.
There are no life signs in the immediate area.
The area is clear, Commander.
Open.
No battle damage.
We have to board her, Captain.
And lost.
Aye, sir.
Quarantine warnings active on all frequencies, Captain.
Open.
I recommend against contact, Captain.
A trick!
Commander Data is ready to come aboard, sir.
Torpedoes ready, Commander.
Open.
I have studied and know everything about my heritage.
Yes, sir.
Of course not. When and if the Captain becomes weak and unable toperform, it is expected that his honourable retirement should be assisted byhis First. Your Second Officer will assassinate you for the same reasons.
The Klingon system has operated successfully for centuries.
Many things will be different.
Commander.
Slightly altered to transmit an omnidirectional signal and an emergencycall.
Simply a security precaution. I want to insure your return to this ship.
Efficiency, Commander.
We have a Klingon vessel approaching.
Open. They are returning our hail in proper language. It is the Pagh.
That is not your concern. Observe your station, Ensign Mendon.
You didn't. Yet.
Ensign Mendon. You may impress me.
Sir, automatic scan has registered an unknown substance on the aftquarter of the exterior skin of the dorsal section.
Aye, sir.
You are supposed to report whatever is out of the ordinary.
And then I will instruct you in Enterprise etiquette.
Aye, sir.
Hailing frequencies are open. There is no response.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
We are getting an emergency signal from a command transponder. Locationzero three five mark three one three. Frequency and code designate it as
Forty eight thousand. Forty four thousand.
Forty thousand.
It is the Pagh, sir.
Aye, sir. Commander?
I'm glad it did.
Thank you, Commander, and welcome home.
O'Brien and Riker aresitting down for an evening's entertainment)
It was in the hands of the Klingons that the novel attained its fullstature.
For some, security is more important than comfort.
Captain, we're being hailed.
Open.
I'll try. Now.
I doubt if anything ever meets with that woman's approval, sir.
Do not be fooled by her looks. The body is just a shell.
That is how the Klingon lures a mate.
No. Men do not roar. Women roar. Then they hurl heavy objects. And clawat you.
He reads love poetry. He ducks a lot.
Then go to her door. Beg like a human.
I'm here to escort you on a tour of the Enterprise.
This is the dilithium crystal chamber. Our Chief Engineer, Geordi La
Anya. Please come with me.
Aye, sir.
Wait for me. What kind of creature is she?
Such a creature would make a perfect protector.
Aye, sir. Captain, what if Anya transforms?
Remain here. You are restricted to these quarters for the remainder ofthis voyage.
I am in charge of Security.
There is no need for concern. She is safe on this ship.
You no longer have the choice. You have to trust me to protect her.
My responsibility to the ship includes protecting Salia.
I was unprepared.
Still, you are here, confined to your room.
I would have stopped you. If not me, someone else.
We will see.
Captain, I am encountering the same interference we experienced on
Captain, I'm receiving an audio signal.
Sir, there are beam-down coordinates encoded within the carrier signal.
Forcefield off.
We have arrived.
I will escort you to transporter room six.
No. You are a worthy opponent.
Yes, we are.
It would be an honour. Shall we go?
Yes, sir. There are no other vessels in the area except the Yamato, whichis coming into visual range now.
Transmission from the Yamato, sir.
Sir, there is an energy build-up in the Yamato's Engineering section.
Captain, magnetic seals in the antimatter chamber are decaying!
Sir!
Captain. Another vessel is coming within sensor range. It is Romulan.
No response from the Romulan vessel.
All their weapons systems have been fully activated. Still no response.
Mute.
Understandable if she just destroyed a Federation starship.
Open.
They are engaging their cloaking device.
Unless they have overcome that deficiency. The Yamato was destroyed whilethey were cloaked.
Personal log. We've been spotted by a Romulan cruiser, but afterplaying hide and seek through several solar systems, I think I've managed toelude them.  The Iconian probe scan. Was it an attempt atcommunication? If only I knew what we were dealing with here. 
Sir, that would put us substantially close to the Romulan side of the
All major cities have been heavily damaged, and the pattern ofdestruction is that consistent with large-scale orbital bombardment.
There is an energy source in the mountains of the smaller continent.
Captain. Projectile launched from the planet's surface.
Tractor beam ready, sir.
Phasers locked on target.
Come in, Enterprise. Still no response, sir.
I would not like to become a permanent resident of this planet.
What is that?
These scenes could be holographic images.
If it is not illusion, this gate would seem to take us beyond theconfines of this planet.
Sir?
Like the Iconians did.
But the probe was hostile.
But we do know that the Iconians were conquerors.
Sir!
Was that really the Enterprise?
Are you all right?
Sir, without him we have no hope of deciphering the programme. Captain,the Enterprise again.
About four minutes, if the cycle holds.
Sir, we have not yet established that that is truly a gateway.
Aye, sir.
Sir, it contains everything we've discovered up to this point.
About three minutes.
Perhaps the probes are in a launch bay.
Almost time. Captain, you will be killed.
But where will you end up?
Aye, sir.
We must take Data to Engineering. Hopefully the Captain will follow.
Commander, what is that?
What is this place? How did a being like you get here?
We call it Theta Eight.
You mean they're not alive?
These beings, are they machines, or mere illusions designed to deceiveus?
Permission to use phaser, sir.
Phasers are totally ineffective on all surfaces.
Perhaps those turbolifts could take us there.
Seems to be malfunctioning.
What a terrible way to die.
Commander.
Commander. Some curiosities.
Yes? There is a female voice asking if we want room service.
No.
She said the kitchen will be open twenty four hours if we change ourminds.
Isn't that enough?
It is my understanding that in most human families, the woman shares inthe cooking.
Delicious.
Sensors indicate there is at least one life form on board the shuttle,sir. Humanoid.
Communication is not possible, sir. The shuttle is without power.
We are closing on shuttlecraft, sir.
Yet there are no Federation bases or vessels in this area.
How is this possible?
Maximum range.
Nor I. The last thing you would do is leave the Bridge of the Enterpriseduring an emergency.
Sensors indicated no other vessels, Federation or otherwise, in thisarea.
There is the theory of the moebius. A twist in the fabric of space wheretime becomes a loop from which there is no escape.
Maximum scan. Nothing unusual to report.
WORF : Captain to the Bridge.
This energy vortex has just appeared beneath us. There was no warning.
All decks have reported. No damage. No injuries.
Aye, sir.
Photon torpedoes locked on target.
All decks have reported in. No damage, no casualties.
Yes.
So?
I never knew my father.
It is a waste of time to think of such things.
Enough!
With all due respect, be gone! Sir.
May I have a moment, sir?
It is very difficult to say. Words are not always easy for me. Is that
That is a fish you are holding.
But it looks like you were
You do not have good feelings for your father?
You plan to leave the Enterprise.
I would like to join you.
But sir, it could be a dangerous mission. There may be the potential forcombat.
Still, to die a true hero
Then I know you will do the right thing.
I do not enjoy riddles, Counsellor.
I am in no mood for trifling or games, not today.
You know about that?
That is impossible. It is a secret known only to Klingons.
Wesley Crusher. What does he know about it?
Where are we going?
This is truly trying my patience, Counsellor.
You're not coming in?
Open.
An Ascension ceremony.
I am ready.
DaHjaj SuvwI''e' jIH. tIgwIj Sa'angNIS. 'Iw bIQtIqDaq jIjaH. Today I am a
jIbechrup may' vIlos.
The battle is mine. I crave only the blood of the enemy. HIHIvqa'.
The bile of the vanquished flows over my hands. May'pequ' moH.
Thank you.
Starbase Montgomery's briefing specialist and analytical team have beameddown, sir.
Is there any indication that this is the work of an unknown intelligence?
Is this part of your regular duties?
Such as?
Interesting. Would these scans also detect artificial transmissions aswell as naturally occurring signals?
Good.
Good.
There are no options. The Prime Directive is not a matter of degrees. Itis an absolute.
To Data.
She cannot ask for help from someone she does not know.
We're modifying class one probes so they become resonators. We will thenuse torpedo casings to protect them once they begin burrowing beneath thesurface.
The Enterprise will monitor and adjust the frequency of the resonators.
Sir, three minutes to resonator launch.
One minute to launch.
Ten seconds.
Firing torpedoes.
Torpedoes have reached their targets.
Commander, there is a shuttle missing from bay two.
I have hailed the shuttle on all frequencies. No response.
Commander. My status board indicates that the shuttle is back in bay two.
Captain, the sixth planet in the system is Class M.
It is as though some great force just scooped all the machine elementsoff the face of the planet.
Captain, we are being probed.
A ship. It is on an intercept course.
Going to Yellow Alert.
Aye, sir.
I detect no shields, no weapons of any known design.
Open.
No response.
Aye, sir.
Ensign.
WORF : Captain, we are being hailed.
WORF : Captain, the Borg have locked on to us with some form of tractorbeam.
The beam is draining our shields.
Shields weakening.
Phasers locked on target.
They still have us.
A type of laser beam is slicing into the saucer section.
Coming in, sir. Sections twenty seven, twenty eight, twenty nine on decksfour, five and six destroyed.
Eighteen were in those sections and are missing.
They have sustained damage to twenty percent of their vessel. Lifesupport minimal.
WORF : Captain, I have the casualty list coming on screen.
There are no life sign readings.
Torpedoes armed.
They had no effect.
The Borg are still gaining.
Captain, the enemy vessel is firing on us. There are no reports of anydamage to the Enterprise.
Confirmed. Shield effectiveness has been reduced twelve percent.
They're firing again. Shields have been reduced forty one percent.
Torpedoes armed.
The Borg ship was not damaged.
The Borg ship is firing. We have lost shields again.
The Borg ship is re-establishing its tractor beam.
Yes, sir.
Commander, receiving a mayday on all frequencies.
Rhomboid Dronegar Sector zero zero six
Ship. Unidentified. Distress. Nothing more.
I have a ship on target path.
Deploy shields, sir?
Sir, we are being hailed.
Commander? Do we truly need to send our Chief Engineer over to them?
Why do we not simply give them the information they need to make theirown repairs?
We do not know anything about them.
We need more information.
What about weapons?
Viewer transmission terminated and blocked.
Shields up.
Phasers ready, sir.
Commander, a photon torpedo may penetrate their shield.
Agreed. But what do the Pakleds want?
He's already been hit by multiple phaser stuns.
Security team stands ready to take the initiative, sir.
Then force it must be.
Any classified weapons knowledge you share with your captors will beconsidered treason.
You will die without honour.
You will never attain the twenty fourth level of awareness.
Indeed. Twenty four is the gateway to heroic salvation.
WORF : Bridge to Commander Riker!
I am receiving an emergency summons from Starbase Five One Five. Captain
WORF : Is close to death.
Starbase requests we proceed to base at warp nine
Firing sequence proceeding, sir.
I am fine.
I did not faint. Klingons do not faint.
Doctor, there is no need to insult me.
Klingons do not give in to illness.
But that is a childhood ailment!
How shall I live down the humiliation?
Still, for a warrior to find himself in such a situation.
How would Commander Riker feel if he had the measles.
Thank you. I am in your debt.
Doctor. I wished to thank you for protecting my
You know the ceremony?
You must not drink the tea. It is deadly to humans.
It is a test of bravery, of one's ability to look at the face ofmortality. It is also a reminder that death is an experience best shared, likethe tea.
It is among the Klingons that love poetry achieves its fullest flower.
Shields at maximum.
Hailing on all frequencies. No response so far, but the flares may beinterfering with communications.
There is no artificial power source on the planet.
Evacuation will be difficult. We can lower our shields for transport onlybetween the flares.
Two hundred and twenty three.
Lieutenant Worf, here. Report.
Keep the area clear.
Fire has been contained. No damage.
Automated fire system. A force field contains the flame until theremaining oxygen within the field has been consumed.
You would have been standing in the fire.
You would have suffocated and died.
She is very like a Klingon woman.
You sent for me?
You can obtain spirituous liquours from the food dispensers.
No, if you wish, it can be real alcohol.
With all of the deleterious effects intact.
Chech'tluth.
What?
Madam, have you considered a career in security?
Signal from the planet, Captain.
Quadruplets.
Clones?
Aye, sir.
What a handsome race.
Captain, we are being hailed by a small transport vessel, just cominginto range.
Even in this state, they possess a certain dignity, a gracefulcountenance.
I see. Is this how you felt when you first saw me?
I am not a man.
Aye, sir.
I raise fifty.
Talk or play. Not both.
Your fifty, and fifty more.
Your deal.
I open with fifty.
Klingons never bluff.
Captain, Starfleet Command is hailing us.
Scanning.
I have it, sir. Bearing zero five mark two three one. Velocity, warpnine.
Probe is coming up to starboard. Range, eighty two hundred. Tractor beamready.
Range now seventy five hundred.
Probe is standing abeam.
I have nothing to say to you.
Sir. I suggest Commander Riker or Data would better serve Special
Yes.
No.  I withdraw my request,
You are late.
I fail to understand why.
Shall we proceed with our assigned duties?
There is nothing wrong with my memory.
I am familiar with your appearance.
I never?
Not as far as I'm concerned. According to the library computer, thecaptain of the T'Ong is K'Temoc. But there is nothing regarding the ship'smission.
Perhaps, but we have no evidence of that.
The records may simply have been lost.
And to contend with that threat, we need information.
That is foolish. Knowing their mission might help us understand them.
And I do not appreciate being interrupted.
We were instructed to come up with options.
There are always options.
My experiences aboard this ship have taught me that most problems havemore than one solution.
Are you going to carry out your duties, or aren't you?
Special Emissary K'Ehleyr has declared a short recess, sir. I wish to runa full diagnostic test on all tactical back-up equipment.
I feel it necessary to check them again.
Sir, considering the unknown elements we are about to face
I am relaxed. Yes, sir.
Computer, level two.
You still can make jokes.
I did not say that.
I've noted that some people use humour as a shield. They talk much, yetsay little.
When one does not have the words
We were not ready.
No, we were both too young, too unaware. We lacked commitment.
No longer. tlhIngan jIH.
We are mated.
And now we must solemnise our union with the oath.
You already are.
You would dishonour our sacred traditions?
None of which stopped you earlier.
That is a human attitude.
You are also Klingon!
It is our way!
tlhIngan jIH!
Then this night had no meaning. And that, I will not believe.
Your devotion to duty is commendable, if belated.
I asked Lieutenant Commander Data to help us analyse the alternatives.
Honour demanded no less.
Klingons do not surrender.
Shields are up.
Shields holding.
Captain. I have another option.
Open hailing frequencies.
Captain K'Temoc, have you lost your mind? Halt your vessel and drop yourshields.
I am Worf, commanding the Enterprise. And it is you who have committed anact of treason by firing upon this ship.
You fool! Did it not occur to you that the war would be over by now?
Trust your eyes. Or is your brain still stuck in its long slumber?
Captain, as you are new to this century, I have tried to be patient. But
Then die in ignorance. I can waste no more time on you. Phasers to fullpower.
Has the T'Ong dropped its shields?
Very well. Fire all phasers.
A wise decision, Captain. Commander K'Ehleyr will board your ship andtake command. The Klingon cruiser P'rang will soon arrive and escort you home.
Welcome to the twenty fourth century.
I return command of the ship to you, Captain.
Comfortable chair.
One to beam aboard the T'Ong.
I relieve you.
The Klingon vessel P'rang will rendezvous with you in three days.
Is there anything else you require?
What needs to be said?
And that disturbs you?
Nor have I.
K'Ehleyr. I will not be complete without you.
bgcolor="#d5d5d5">
Despite their reputations, this Zakdorn does not appear to be a veryformidable warrior
So no one is willing to test that perception in combat.
Then the reputation means nothing.
Enter!
Just finished.
Waste of time.
Useless. If there is nothing to lose, no sacrifice, then there is nothingto gain.
There is always a chance.
Well, still
Guile.
The honour is to serve.
I have wagered heavily in the ship's pool that you will take him past thesixth plateau.
I will be irritated.
Computer. Actuation positions for Strategema. Ready? Begin.
WORF : Away team assembled and ready to transport, Commander.
Not good.
Sir, Lieutenant La Forge is a superior officer. The honour should be his.
WORF : Signal received. Locked on.
With my knowledge of the Enterprise's security override, we may be ableto convince the sensors that an enemy ship is approaching. Their instrumentswould lie to them.
If I am successful, the computer will project a false image of the enemyship on the main viewscreen.
Attempt the routing bypass here. If it works, they will be surprised.
Anywhere.
Counter with Talupian manoeuvre on instrument sighting.
Aye, sir.
Computers report heavy damage to Enterprise.
We must assist, sir.
WORF : Very unfortunate.
We will be dead.
That only deceive them for a few minutes. Their sensors will soon locateus.
No game of Strategema has ever gone this high.
Sir, the Engineering section is critical. Destruction of the Batris isimminent.
Origin point of the message confirmed, sir. It is from the Shelia starsystem.
Captain, human life form readings from the planet.
Impossible to get an accurate reading. High levels of radiation aredisrupting our sensors.
So are the ship's phasers.
Loading all the Enterprise shuttlecraft to capacity, evacuation will takefour weeks, four days.
Their home world is quite distant, Captain. This will take some time.
No response.
Sheliak Corporate. This is the starship Enterprise. Respond please.
Open.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
Open. They are not responding.
No response.
This is hopeless. Fighting would be preferable.
Yes, sir. Coming through, sir.
Captain, they are hailing us.
Sir?
WORF : Acknowledged. Stand by.
Captain, we're heading straight into the path of that stellar matter.
Negative. The shields will not respond.
Shields are rising.
Sensors clearly indicate the approach of a Borg vessel.
Shields are not responding.
Captain, they're firing energy weapons at us.
Vector. Is gone. And so is the Borg vessel.
He entered a computer access room and sterilised one of the processorswith gamma radiation.
Captain, the ship is at risk. Extermination may be our only alternative.
Electromagnetic scanners ready, Captain.
If they have control of a Starfleet Commander, they become an evengreater threat.
Shields up. Sensors do not indicate the presence of any armed spacevehicles operating in the Rana system.
Life form readings are negative.
Two life forms, possibly human.
There is one individual is located at the south end of the house, theother toward the north. There is a weapon, a low-yield phaser, nonfunctional,in proximity to the front-room individual.
Should I incapacitate him, Commander?
Sir. May I say your attempt to hold the away team at bay with anonfunctioning weapon was an act of unmitigated gall.
I admire gall.
Captain, a search of the Ranian system has determined that the hostileforce that attacked this planet is no longer present.
Those Andorians did not have to contend with someone of my thoroughness.
I, er, cannot explain this, Captain.
Open.
Aye, sir.
The vessel is firing jacketed streams of positrons and antiprotons.
Good tea. Nice house.
Aye, sir, but they are already within firing range.
Shields are down. Captain, they hit us with four hundred gigawatts ofparticle energy.
Superficial, but I'm having trouble reassembling the shields.  Shields down. There is thermal damage to the hull.
Shields down. Internal damage. Weapon systems control has been lost.
The vessel has terminated its pursuit. It is assuming an orbit around
Sir, sensors indicate no spacecraft in the vicinity of Rana Four. But,
Evasive action, sir?
Weapons, sir?
The house has been obliterated.
There are no survivors.
Aye, sir.
Why is it we maintain watch on a planet that is now totally dead?
I detect two life forms inside the house. It appears Kevin and Rishonwere not destroyed.
Captain, he is dangerous!
Captain, incoming transmission from Mintaka Three.
We've lost contact, sir.
Keep work. Palmer.
WORF : Scans of the planet detect no humans, Captain.
WORF : Sir, a close orbit will increase sensor efficiency by only fourpercent.
WORF : Aye, sir.
WORF : The archeologists have identified the markings in these caverns.
WORF : We have completed our survey of the third tunnel and will proceedinto the ceremonial chamber.
WORF : Captain. Emergency beam up! Enterprise, emergency! Severe injuries.
We had completed our investigation of the third tunnel. Our scans hadindicated no weapons or traps of any kind. Lieutenant Aster was three metresbehind me. An explosive device went off. There was no warning. Lieutenant Asterbore the full brunt of the detonation.
Captain. I must accompany you. I commanded the away team.
I have made my report to the Captain.
I cannot seek revenge against an enemy who's turned to dust centuriesago. Her death was senseless. The last victim of a forgotten war.
There's nothing more to be said.
A leader must stand alone. As Captain Picard does.
Then may I seek your counsel about my plan to make the R'uustai with theboy.
It is my right.
He is an orphan. I am an orphan. He will understand.
I only wish to honour his mother.
Jeremy Aster? I'm Lieutenant Worf. May I enter?
Yes. I was with Lieutenant Aster, your mother, when she died.
Yes.
What did they teach you about us?
Did they also teach you that every Klingon hopes to die in the line ofduty as your mother did? In my tradition, we do not grieve the loss of thebody. We celebrate the releasing of the spirit.
Jeremy Aster, we may both understand it, but we must bring meaning toyour mother's death. Perhaps we can do it together.
Jeremy, come here.
Lieutenant Worf to Captain Picard.
WORF : Lieutenant Aster is in her quarters.
Lieutenant Aster is here. In her quarters with the boy.
Where are you taking the child?
Worf to Picard, they're leaving their quarters.
WORF : Captain, I believe we're headed for transporter room three.
Security to transporter room three.
Energy force has left transporter room three. Security alert, all decks.
Power's back in transporter room three.
WORF : Transporter is down again.
WORF : Go ahead, Captain.
WORF : Yes, sir.
They were killed in battle when I was six. When I was alone, humanshelped me. Let me help you. The Marla Aster I knew and honoured is not in thisroom. Nor does she await you on the planet. Now she lives only here And here.
SoS jIH batlh SoH.
It honours the memory of our mothers. We have bonded and our families arestronger.
A Promellian battle cruiser?
I did not play with toys.
Admirable. They died at their posts.
Aye, sir.
Readouts indicate we are being bombarded with a field of high intensityradiation.
Aye, sir.
Radiation intensity increasing.
No, sir. The radiation field is so strong it interferes with our sensors.
Negligible.
Nothing substantial, Captain.
There is a point one percent dip in the strength of the radiation fieldat two one mark eight by four two mark zero.
Phasers locked on coordinates.
Radiation levels increasing. Eight percent. Ten percent.
Under two hours, Captain. And the radiation field has increased byseventeen percent.
We will be entering the debris field in eight seconds.
No reaction from the assimilator.
Sir! Object to port.
Aye, sir.
Communicators are dysfunctional.
Readings only valid within five metres.
Yes, sir. Romulan.
Commander!
Commander Riker!
Four minutes to beam-up.
Secure Sickbay. Post a guard in visual contact at all times.
Hailing frequencies open, sir.
The frequency is open, sir.
Captain, I see no reason to return the Romulan to his ship. He should beheld and interrogated.
Aye, aye, sir.
Probe has reached the surface, sir.
Yes, Doctor?
That is impossible. I am a Klingon.
I have no objection to tests.
Yes.
If you had seen them kill your parents, you would understand, Doctor, itis always the time and place for those feelings.
Then he will die.
Incoming Romulan transmission, Captain.
You are busy. Forgive my intrusion.
With respect, sir, you cannot. I am asked to give up the very lifebloodof my mother and my father to those who murdered them.
Yes.
Impossible.
Then you believe I should?
My Starfleet training tells me one thing, but everything I am tells meanother.
Acknowledged.
There is a substance within my cells which you need to survive.
No.
Captain, the Romulan warship has crossed the Neutral Zone border. It isin Federation space and heading toward us.
You wished to see me, Captain.
Yes.
I have, Captain.
I understand.
I have not had cause to complain, Captain.
If you order me to agree to the transfusion, I will obey, of course.
I cannot.
Sir?
Romulan ship approaching. Bearing three fifty four mark two eight seven.
Entering phaser range. We are being hailed, sir.
The Romulan ship is routing power to its forward disruptor array.
Aye, sir.
Phasers locked and ready.
If we lower our shields, the Romulan will strike.
Aye, sir. They're ignoring our hail, sir.
No acknowledgement, sir.
Yes, sir. Shields down.
Security team to the Bridge.
Disruptors powering down.
I am in charge of Security.
The Ferengi pod is moving into position.
Sir, the Ferengi vessel is moving out of orbit. Impulse power They areapproaching the entry to the wormhole, sir.
They are powering forward missile launchers, sir.
They've fired a missile directly at the opening, sir.
On screen. Firing phasers.
Ferengi vessel has shut down its forward missile launcher.
Captain, DaiMon Goss is demanding to know where his men are.
The reactor's gone.
 It's jammed.
Commander? Ambush!
Your words are wasted, Commander. They understand only this. 
Your ambushes would be more successful if you bathed more often.
Shields holding.
Chorgan is not responding.
I believe we can, sir.
Phasers locked. Channel open.
Their forward shields are inoperative.
We are being hailed, sir.
Aye, sir.
Captain. Shall we transmit a warning to withdraw, sir?
Aye, sir. Captain, the Romulan is hailing us.
Not within range yet.
Visual range. On screen, Captain.
Channel is open.
No reply, sir.
Responding.
Weapons on the warbird are fully powered, sir.
Ready.
Warbird has re-entered the Neutral Zone. Heading for Romulan territory.
The Federation will not permit that.
You are aware of a great deal for a logistics clerk.
Forged credentials are a simple matter for a spy.
You are lucky this is not a Klingon ship. We know how to deal with spies.
Aye, sir.
WORF : Yes, Captain.
WORF : Aye, sir. On my way.
Aye, sir.
Nothing on sensors.
Aye, sir.
Two Romulan warships uncloaking. Coordinates
Shields holding.
Captain!
The Romulans are hailing us.
Aye, sir.
Klingon warships armed and ready, sir.
Romulan disruptors powering down, sir.
Aye, sir.
On screen, sir.
No warp drive. Minimal weaponry.
None.
No life signs.
Incoming message from the Angosian Prime Minister.
Sir, the Angosians have no cloaking technology.
Sensors detect a massive power build up in his aft thrusters.
On screen.
Security team, report to transporter room four.
WORF : Captain, the Angosian transport vessel has arrived.
Release of the force field and activation of the transporter will bevirtually simultaneous. There will only be a point one second differencebetween them.
There will be a full security contingent present.
O'Brien, increase transporter power.
WORF : Captain, a phaser is missing.
We must assume that he is armed.
We're in position.
Phaser on overload! Seal this deck.
WORF : Captain, the overload has been averted.
Acknowledged, Commander. We're on our way.
Geordi!
Acknowledged.
We believe he is attempting to reach shuttlebay two.
There is a full contingent of security at all shuttlebays.
WORF : Acknowledged.
Worf to Bridge. We have found no sign of the intruder. But there is amissing pressure suit
WORF : From cargo bay three.
Aye, sir. I'll also cover the photon torpedo launchers. Danar may attemptto leave the ship that way. Worf out.
Danar! You are cunning. You must have Klingon blood. But the battle isover.
Worf to Bridge. I have Danar.
Worf to Bridge.
Danar has escaped.
WORF : He used a phaser to power the cargo transporter. Coordinatesindicate he beamed aboard the Angosian transport ship. 
Priority channel cleared.
I understand, Commander.
Did you reveal that risk to the men who volunteered for service?
Doctor!
Doctor, it is not safe.
Doctor.
The tricorder is not reading any other explosive devices in thisvicinity.
Sir, I believe she was the intended target of the abduction.
It does now.
Intruder alert, deck twelve.
Intruders in Engineering
Request permission to join the rescue party, sir. I owe it to the
The sound is not registering, Commander.
Die.
Delighted, Captain.
You will walk or I will carry you.
Too bad.
Be quiet! Or disappear back where you came from.
You have fooled us too often, Q.
Computer, activate force field.
WORF : They're standing by, Captain.
Captain, sensors are picking up a cloud of energetic plasma. Bearing,three-four one mark two zero. Range, twelve kilometres and closing.
Energy patterns are reading as highly organized.
Receiving a signal, sir. On speaker.
Captain, we're being hit by a field of energetic tachyons penetrating thehull. Location, deck ten, forward.
No effect
Still no effect
The added harmonics are blocking the tachyon field.
WORF : Aye, sir.
Captain, sensors are picking up an increased energy output from the
Understood.
Emergency! Shields up.
Calamarain attacking.  Shields holding. Tachyon field repelled.
Calamarain resuming attack.
They've overpowered the shields. Hull penetration, deck thirty six,
Captain, an unscheduled shuttle has just been launched.
Frequencies open.
Captain, the plasma cloud is moving toward the shuttle.
No, sir, but they are still moving toward the shuttle.
Captain, Bre'el Four is hailing us.
Captain, Chief Investigator Krag of the Tanugan security force requestspermission to beam aboard.
Aye, sir.
I'm Lieutenant Worf, head of ship's Security. I will take you to the
Commander, sensors indicate a radiation burst on deck thirty nine,outside cargo bay twelve.
Unknown, sir.
It is subsiding, sir.
WORF : Security to Doctor Crusher. Evacuate. Repeat, evacuate. Radiationemissions are indicated in Sickbay.
What is it?
A warrior's drink.
I would require a Klingon woman for companionship. Earth females are toofragile.
Impossible.
Then I will never know.
I was merely concerned for the safety of my crewmates.
On my way.
Captain! Something's happening. A new change in sensor readings.
Readings fluctuated momentarily. It appeared to be a ship, but then itvanished.
WORF : Captain, incoming signal. Starfleet priority one. Admiral Haftel.
WORF : Captain, Commander Riker's shuttle has just returned.
Sensors picking up asteroidal debris ahead, Commander.
Bearing zero zero one mark point oh three. Range, three hundred thousandkilometres.
Approximately two thousand small objects. None in our direct flight path,sir.
It should not be needed, sir.
Permission to speak freely, sir?
I have questions I wish to pose.
They serve me.
They are of a personal nature, sir.
I wish to know if I have given you offence.
Perhaps I have not performed my duties to your satisfaction?
Yet you dishonour me at every opportunity.
I am a Klingon.
I am a Klingon! if you doubt it, a demonstration can be arranged.
The Starfleet officer that rescued me was told by the Klingon High
So you asked to serve aboard the Enterprise to watch me.
Your deception offends me, brother.
To satisfy your curiosity.
Challenge?
My father is accused of aiding and abetting the Romulan attack on the
I do not know, Captain. I will hear the evidence when I arrive. Thecharge has been made by Duras, the son of my father's greatest rival. Ourfamily name will be disgraced for seven generations. It is my responsibility toclear his name or answer for his crimes.
The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his actions and he isresponsible for theirs. If I fail in my challenge, I will be executed. Will yougrant my leave, Captain?
Yes.
I know the procedure for the challenge.
I ask you to stand with me, to be my cha'DIch.
No. For the proceeding, you will not reveal your true father.
You will not.
On this ship, you are my commander, and I obey. In Council chamber, youare my cha'DIch. You do not insist. You obey.
I am Worf, son of Mogh. I have come to challenge the lies that have beenspoken of my father.
Yes. With my life.
I have not forsaken my heritage. I am Klingon. My heart is of this world.
It is a good day to die, Duras, and the day is not yet over.
I am Klingon.
My father
Why would you ask me to lay aside the honour of my father, my family? Arethese the words of the council?
It is a kut'luch. The ceremonial weapon of an assassin.
It does not matter. We should have let him die. Now that Duras knows hisbloodlines, we will both be executed.
K'mpec urged me to drop my challenge, abandon my family honour. It wasimpossible to believe I was hearing a Klingon speak
If it is true, it is not just Duras but the High Council itself that ismy enemy. Captain, I must choose another cha'DIch. I would like your permissionto ask one of the crew.
Then I would ask you to stand with me. You may refuse with no dishonour.
I can think of no one I would rather have at my side.
My challenge will proceed. No threats, no treachery will stop it. Noteven a trap set for my cha'DIch by a coward.
He is now my cha'DIch.
She was my ghojmoK, my nurse.
But she died in the attack.
It is too dangerous. You must not go alone.
Why did you judge my father guilty when you knew he was not?
This ha'DIbaH should have been fed to the dogs!
I will die for the Empire.
The cha'DIch will be silent. Allow my brother to return to his life. Onlyyou need know his true bloodline.
If you allow him to live, I will give you something that will serve yourpurpose far more than my death. I will accept discommendation.
So be it.
You are the son of a traitor.
Now I am ready.
tlhIH ghIj jIHyoj.
You must also, brother.
Security team to Captain's quarters.
Security override. Priority one.
Sir, the Hood has arrived at the rendezvous point. They are expecting usin thirty six hours.
Aye, Commander.
Of course, Captain.
Anything unusual, Doctor?
It is not enough evidence to justify mutiny.
Captain, I would feel better if you would allow me to assign a securityofficer to you. We will be out of communication range when we leave orbit.
Aye, sir.
Sir, we are being hailed on a secured channel by Captain DeSoto.
The Romulans claim all that is in their field of vision.
Something is out there, sir, tracking us, matching our speed and heading.
It is not a sensor malfunction.
Aye, sir.
Captain. Our sensors are detecting a subspace wave front of highlyionised particles preceding the object which is tracking us.
Romulan warbird closing. They are arming main disruptors, Captain.
Aye, sir.
The Romulan has passed us.
Casualties reported. Seventy percent loss to the shields.
Captain, the Romulans are arming all disruptors.
Nothing available yet, sir. We have partial failure of the main computer.
One moment, Commander. Confirmed. Sir, the other Romulan ship on anintercept course.
Captain, the Romulan has uncloaked.
Phasers available on manual, sir. Computer target lock not functioning.
Open.
Confirmed. The alien has thrown up a shield. It is blocking all oursensors. Captain, the Romulans' weapons systems are now at full power.
Aye, sir.
Sir, the Romulans are hailing us.
Power levels aboard the alien are increasing, sir.
Power levels aboard Tin Man are increasing beyond our sensor range.
There is no sign of Tin Man or the Romulans, sir. Captain, on screen.
Sir, our velocity increased to warp seven point two five.
Confirmed. Velocity now warp seven.
Approaching warp nine sir.
Exceeding warp nine point four.
Standing by to release docking clamps.
Aye, Captain.
Data.
Sir, Mister Fajo is hailing us.
Link established. Receiving.
Captain, transfer of information complete.
Dali. This is the only known Roger Maris trading card from Earthcirca 1962. The smell? Bubblegum. I've preserved the scent. What? A Lapling.
Finoplak, one hundred denkirs. 
I have served at the position before.
About me? Why?
Bridge. Promotion due to the death of a crewmate is commonplace on
I honour Data's memory, as I did Lieutenant Yar's, by attempting toperform their duties as well as they did.
I appreciate your concern.
Scanning. Tricyanate contamination confirmed. Levels approaching fortytwo parts per million.
Thirty square kilometres.
Highest concentration eight kilometres west of the colony.
Probe on target. Hytritium entering water table. Disbursement slightlyfaster than expected. Sir, something unusual.
I'm getting concentrated tricyanate readings of seventy grams per cubiccentimetre at the source coordinates. Much higher than would normally occur.
Curious. The process of neutralisation should have taken several hours.
There are no natural trace elements present in these tricyanate crystals.
Then, why would he do it?
Captain, affirmative response from station Lya Four.
I am aware of that, Commander. However, Ensign D'Amato directlychallenged my authority.
I hadn't noticed.
I see what you mean.
Security team to Ten Forward.
DaiMon Tog has returned to his vessel and the Ferengi have left orbit.
I hear she handled the situation quite skillfully. An admirable woman.
Enterprise? Must be too far out of range.
Subspace interference is subsiding, sir. Communications have beenrestored.
Message coming in from Betazed, sir. Priority One.
When you have finished here, survey in that direction.
Mister Homn was no help?
The difficult question is where.
Captain, the Bradbury is hailing us. They can no longer delay theirdeparture.
Captain. The Bradbury has informed us they can wait no longer for Mister
Signal source located, Captain.
Frequencies open. DaiMon Tog responding.
Open.
Seven, six
Lwaxana Troi has beamed down to Betazed, Captain.
Aye, sir.
Which one?
Why not?
Good. You must let her see the fire in your eyes.
Words come later. It is the scent that first speaks of love.
I have much to teach you about women.
Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate phaser firewas recently exchanged.
Less talk, more synthahol. We came here to relax.
I've been tutoring him. He learns very quickly.
Sir, I am reading a vessel on long range scanners. It is coming fromsector nine five six nine.
Impossible to identify at this distance. However, it is on an interceptcourse.
No response, Captain.
Aye, sir.
Leave the control booth immediately!
Step away from the controls.
I have no wish to harm you, but you must return to Sickbay immediately.
They continue to ignore our hails, sir.
They are answering our hail, Captain.
The Zalkonian ship has a formidable armament. Their weaponry iscomparable to ours.
Aye, sir.
Sunad is back aboard the Zalkonian vessel, Captain.
No sir. There have been no communications from the colony for over twelvehours.
None.
Sir, reading unidentified vessel just entering sensor range. Bearing twoone zero mark one five one.
No response, sir.
Sir, the vessel has already changed course to intercept us. Approachingat warp nine point three. Entering visual range.
Captain, you are being hailed.
Yes, Captain. By name.
Channel open.
Captain, the Borg are attempting to lock on to us with their tractorbeam.
Shields are being drained. Ninety percent. Eighty.
Shields have failed.
Launching torpedoes. Phaser spread continuing.
They're cutting into the hull. Engineering section.
The tractor beam has been released.
They are in pursuit, Captain.
The Borg ship is continuing scans, attempting to locate us.
WORF : Captain Picard, report to the Bridge.
Back to forty eight percent, Captain.
Direct hit, deck nine.
Structural latching system integrity breached.
Borg tractor beam is attempting to lock on.
Shields failing. Tractor beam has locked on.
The Borg ship is disengaging. Leaving at warp speed.
Borg vessel has reached warp nine. Nine point four, nine point six.
Sir, the coordinates they have set, they're on a direct course to sectorzero zero one. The Terran system.
Commander, they are leading us into the heart of our own defences.
These phasers have been retuned. Each has a different frequency spanningthe upper EM band.
Tricorder functions minimal.
Inconclusive.
The Captain's communicator. It is still activated.
This way.
In here.
Captain!
He is a Borg.
Sir, we are being hailed by the Borg.
Firing, sir.
The Borg ship is undamaged.
That would be a great advantage.
The Borg have neither honour nor courage. That is our greatest advantage.
We have the new phaser adapters.
Sensors are picking up several vessels, Captain.
Visual contact.
Sir, sensors are picking up unusually strong eddy currents, bearing twozero zero, mark two one one.
Shuttle has penetrated the Borg electromagnetic field.
Data!
Mission accomplished. We have him.
The Klingon Empire will never yield.
I like my species the way it is.
It is confirmed. The Borg have broken through the Mars defence perimeter.
Sir, the Borg have halted their approach to Earth.
Visual contact with the Borg.
Sensors reading increased power generation from the Borg.
Aye, Captain.
Their weapon systems are fully charged.
Borg attempting to lock on tractor beam.
Borg cutting beam activated.
Sir, shall I execute evacuation sequence?
Minimal power.
Nonexistent.
Tricorder readings are fluctuating rapidly, Commander.
I get no further response from the vessel.
Captain, the Talarian warship the Q'Maire is responding to the distresscall.
Halfway through the Woden sector.
Ancillary power is failing.
No other life signs aboard, sir.
Yes, Doctor.
They are not my captors. They are my comrades.
Doctor Crusher. She is my superior officer.
You are human, and among humans, females can achieve anything the malescan.
You are confused.
Stop that!
Captain Endar requests an open channel, sir.
Captain, sensors indicate two warships approaching from the oppositedirection along the border.
Captain, is it worth it, to go to war over a child?
Captain, there is a subspace communication from Starfleet Command.
Sir, the message is for Jeremiah Rossa.
Talarian warships converging. Range, five hundred kilometres.
No, sir. We have an open channel.
Commander, the Captain of the Q'Maire requests communication.
Talarian vessels routing power to forward rockets.
The Q'Maire is requesting communication on a secure channel, Commander.
Captain, did you request a course correction?
Captain. Force fields have been established on all main Bridge turboliftdoors and service crawlways.
Aye, sir.
The isolinear subprocessor extends three point five metres.
J14 baker backs onto science station two, Commander.
Yes, sir. Life support has been re-established.
He's activated a force field, sir.
He has blocked every subspace channel, sir. We cannot even call for help.
Yes, sir.
I order you to stop.
No, no, that's too close.
Captain, we are in.
Computer, restore tactical station.
It won't answer to my clearance, sir.
Sensors are operative.
No fix on Data, but I am picking up a single life form on the surface,sir. It appears human.
Something else.
A small vessel, entering orbit. I detect no lifeforms aboard, sir.
We have control of sensors, life support and auxiliary power, Captain.
The human is here.
No way of knowing.
Phaser upgrades are complete, Commander.
And we have begun power supply calibration.
Thank you, sir.
Sir?
No, sir. It is inappropriate for a Klingon to receive family while onduty. As humans, my parents do not understand.
No, sir. That will not be necessary.
Not at all. I have already informed them by correspondence of mydiscommendation. I do not believe any human can truly understand my dishonour.
They still have not signalled?
My mother is never on time. It is so human of her.
I am not looking forward to this. I wish they would come so it wouldbegin and end sooner.
Unlikely.
I am not concerned about my father chasing nurses.
Mother. Father.
No.
Let me take you to
We are in the midst of a repair. I cannot give you a complete tour.
We have taken enough of the Commander's time.
Commander La Forge, call me when you, when my father wishes to leave.
Mother, Father, I wish you would be a little more reserved while you areon board.
Worf here.
On my way, Commander. Have Guinan call me if you need anything.
Enter.
No. No. I thought you were going to your quarters to sleep.
Please. When I heard you were on the visitors' list, I was not sure Iwanted you to come. I am glad you are here.
I must bear my dishonour alone.
No. Perhaps some of your rokeg blood pie.
Captain. Welcome back.
These are my parents, Helena and Sergey Rozhenko.
I was not aware of this passenger.
It is. Please proceed.
Computer, where is Doctor Dalen Quaice?
I will order a search immediately.
Even if Doctor Quaice had been injured, why would his belongings bemissing?
Sir, I have several teams conducting a deck by deck search. It is not yetcomplete.
We have completed our search, Captain. We cannot locate Doctor Quaice.
Yes, sir, but I have been closely monitoring all on-board sensors. Therehas been no indication that any
One.
Pah!
I suspect conspiracy. Far be it for me to accuse my superior officers.
Subspace message from the Arcos. Their transmitter is failing, sir. Audioonly.
Unable to establish contact.
I've been trying to, Captain. No response.
Sir, we can anticipate a violent response to our presence. Perhaps the
The colony is completely lawless. Lieutenant Yar spoke of rape gangs and
Proximity detectors. I've seen them used on Manu Three.
That is no better than a ransom demand.
Then why do you need more phasers?
A battle exercise.
No promises, no denials.
Captain. Transmission coming in from Turkana Four, on a secure channel.
Mute.
I do not trust him.
Open.
WORF : Incoming transmission from the colony, Captain.
We will need a diversion.
Commander!
We do not have much choice.
I understand you wish to join Starfleet.
On that day, it is we who will be lucky.
Caution is indicated.
Are you certain?
Commander, look.
She probably tried to draw their fire. It triggered the alarm.
Come on.
Captain, Klingon attack cruiser de-cloaking, bearing zero one zero marktwo three seven.
We are being hailed.
Captain, I must request permission to send another officer.
My dishonour among Klingons may offend Ambassador K'Ehleyr.
I withdraw my request, sir.
Two?
Energise.
Perhaps you're not aware of my dishonour. I have accepteddiscommendation.
You may not respect our traditions, but I do.
Must I ask the question?
There is no honour in attacking the weak.
No. You must earn victory.
There are no others on board.
The Federation and the Klingon Empire were enemies for many years. Noother Klingons have asked to serve in Starfleet.
A warrior does not ask so many questions.
He knows nothing of our ways!
He is Klingon!
Why did you not tell me?
You should not have kept this from me.
I cannot acknowledge my relationship to the boy. It would only harm him.
As my son, he would also bear my disgrace, as would his children.
My father was accused of collaborating with the Romulans at Khitomer.
Yes at first. Ultimately I withdrew my challenge.
On our way, Commander.
You have made it clear that I am to perform my regular duties, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Permission to speak freely, sir?
Duras must not be allowed to lead the council.
It is not personal, sir. His father betrayed my people to the Romulans.
To preserve the Empire.
Sir?
A Klingon would not use poison. His murder would have no honour.
Well, I know little of Gowron. Only that he is an outsider who has oftenchallenged the Council. But Duras? I know him. His heart is not Klingon.
I have not received your report on the explosion.
As Head of Security, it is my duty to be concerned.
You know my feelings.
You were right. I would have insisted we take the oath. But not justbecause of tradition.
jIH dok.
No, I cannot allow you to suffer my humiliation.
But what of the boy? He may want to live in the Empire someday. He wouldbe an outcast. Another traitor from a family of traitors.
Respect my wishes in this matter. I cannot take the oath with you. Norcan I claim your son.
A bat'leth. It belonged to my father. It has been in our family for tengenerations.
No, no, no. Do not think of it as a weapon. Make it part of your hand.
It would be impossible.
Captain, I disagree. It must be Duras.
Yes, sir.
Captain, they will be incensed. My presence will be disruptive.
What did your investigations reveal about the explosion?
And was your analysis just as insightful?
What type?
What about the detonator?
Fortunately, our investigation was more thorough. The bomb used amolecular-decay detonator.
Aye, sir.
When we have more time I will take you to the holodeck and demonstrate inmore detail
Medical emergency, deck eight, room one four two!
Gowron?
Duras!
K'Ehleyr. K'Ehleyr!
You have never seen death. Then look. And always remember.
Stay with the doctor.
Duras.
K'Ehleyr was my mate.
Then that is how it shall be.
Sir, I have acted within the boundaries of Klingon law and tradition.
No, sir.
Each member of the Klingon High Council has shared in that lie. They willnot be so willing to admit their own dishonour. But the day will come when mybrother and I will convince them to speak the truth.
My parents, my human parents, will meet us at Starbase seventy three.
You deserve a home, a family. They can provide that I cannot. I miss hertoo.
Yes. I am your father.
Romulans?
Magnetic clutter is increasing. I cannot make an accurate determination.
Captain.
Captain, warbird uncloaking.
Captain, the Decius is hailing us. The Admiral wishes to speak to you.
In combat.
Captain, I am picking up a general distress signal from Gamelan Five.
Commander, a message from the mining settlement on Pentarus Five. Theshuttlecraft carrying Captain Picard has not yet arrived.
They have asked if we are beginning a search.
Aye, sir.
Commander, the miners report that they have very few operableshuttlecraft. They want to know when we will be joining the search.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
We are within visual range of the asteroid belt.
Not yet, sir.
Captain. Sensors indicate a vast field of
It's gone. But something did appear directly in our path.
I'm not convinced it is a ghost. There may be something there, Commander.
Weapons and shields normal.
Tactical sensor readings are indeterminant.
Sir, recommend we fire a spread of photon torpedoes into their field.
Torpedoes armed. Fire distribution set. Detonation at seven kilometresahead of the cluster.
Launching photon torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.
Launching torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.
Twenty three minutes, sir.
We are beginning to encounter the gravitational effects of the string.
Three minutes to impact.
Yes.
Of course. I have attended human weddings before.
Hold.
Yes, my adoptive parents often give these things at family weddings. Ahuman custom.
Hold.
No.
An honour, perhaps. But human bonding rituals often involve a great dealof talking and dancing and crying.
DATA : Commander
Aye, sir. They are responding. Text only. We are to proceed to the agreedcoordinates.
Captain, the warbird is holding position. In three minutes we will bewithin phaser range.
Open.
Understood. Transporter activated. Captain!
Boosting power to autosequencers.
WORF : Bridge to Captain Picard. Admiral Mendak is hailing. He wishes tospeak with you.
WORF : The ship is still in the Neutral Zone on course zero seven nine markone two five. Speed, warp two.
Aye, sir. No response.
Message coming in, sir.
Captain, Romulan warbird decloaking to starboard.
Captain, long range sensors detect three Romulan warbirds entering thissector.
All systems normal, sir. We are on course for Adelphous Four. Engineeringis realigning the main deflector dish. Sickbay reports Lieutenant Umbato broketwo ribs during a holodeck exercise, and sensors continue to gather long-rangeinformation on the Murasaki quasar.
Aye, sir.
The Cardassians have no honour. I do not trust them.
Trust is earned, not given away.
Cardassian ship preparing to fire again, sir.
Minor damage to secondary hull before we put our shields up, sir. Nocasualties. Structural integrity intact.
Aye, sir. Ready.
The Cardassian ship is standing down, sir.
Frequency open.
Sir, it is necessary to assign them a security detail.
At least allow me to post guards in some of the sensitive areas of theship.
Aye, sir.
WORF : Worf to Captain Picard.
WORF : Long range sensors have located the Phoenix.
Yes, Captain.
No, Captain.
Aye, sir.
No, Captain.
Sir, they will be able to dismantle its shields. The Phoenix will nothave a chance.
Yes, Captain.
He was found at a computer station on deck thirty five, attempting toaccess information on our weapon systems.
Gladly, Captain.
WORF : Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
No response, sir.
The Phoenix still does not respond, sir.
Aye, sir.
Vessels are within visual range.
Sir, Captain Maxwell is hailing us.
They're arming phasers and loading forward torpedo bays.
Phasers armed. Loading forward and aft torpedo bays.
Contact reestablished with Ventax Two, sir.
The trouble is at the transmission source, sir.
They are transmitting again.
Aye, sir.
Sir, you run the risk of being taken as an additional hostage
Yes, sir.
Much better. a fine example for the others. Who would you be?
You are not Fek'lhr.
But her powers?
WORF : Go ahead.
The Captain? But I have no
WORF : Aye, sir. We're locked on to you.
Transporter is malfunctioning, Captain.
WORF : Some sort of interference. Checking.
Did you say uniform?
Aye, sir.
Still picking up energy distortions, but fading. It seems to be gone.
Shields and weapons systems are fully functional.
Probe approaching the T-tauri system, Captain.
What are you suggesting, Captain?
Counsellor?
Aye, sir.
You are certain you are well?
Deanna! Security! Override the lock on Counsellor Troi's quarters! Now!
What's wrong?
Doctor.
Perhaps not.
A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort, but the Captainordered us to report anything out of the ordinary.
There are very few individuals on board who could have broken my wrist.
Well, he does possess the speed and the strength.
If we didn't win and we didn't lose?
Shields up. Photon torpedoes armed. Phasers standing by. Captain, anenergy field has appeared between our position and the planet.
The field has emitted an energy pulse. Approaching the Enterprise.
It might be a probe.
Shields undamaged. The energy pulse has dispersed.
Captain, the energy field is approaching.
Contact imminent.
Aye, sir. The field is shifting amplitude, trying to match the shields.
I do not recommend weapons at this range, Captain.
All systems are frozen, Captain.
Captain!
Shields and weapons systems unaffected.
Aye, sir.
It does not conform to any known design.
Aye, sir.
Captain, we are being probed. Recommend we raise shields.
It is moving toward us.
No effect, Captain.
Ready.
I advise against this, Captain. The parent proved to be a threat to theship. We do not know how the offspring will react.
Three percent.
Captain, it is following us. Maintaining a distance of four kilometres,directly astern.
It is turning with us, sir.
It is matching our velocity.
Its velocity is increasing. It is moving directly toward the ship.
Minor damage.
What action should we take, sir?
Captain, its total volume has increased by eight point five percent inthe last three hours. I now read it at forty six million cubic metres.
Difficulty getting a clear sensor reading beyond four thousandkilometres.
Sensors detect movement within the asteroid field. Bearing two five sevenmark one six one.
Auxiliary power only. Two seconds phaser fire available.
Two minutes until the creatures intercept, Captain.
One minute thirty seconds to intercept.
Captain, the creatures are accelerating their approach. They are changingcolour.
Thirty seconds to intercept.
WORF : Worf to La Forge. There is an incoming message on subspace for
Commander. Here's another one. This was done by a phaser on a setting ofsix or seven.
I was detained.
Sir?
WORF : Aye, sir.
Deflector power banks approaching maximum. Discharge in fifteen seconds.
Discharge in three seconds, two, one.
lujpu' jiH'e, Alexandrijn.
You will not stop me.
No one can stop me.
I am no longer a warrior. I am no longer strong. I feel.
I feel fear.
Something is waiting for us. I am not strong enough to fight it.
Long range sensors holding on the shuttlecraft, bearing zero one zero,mark two seven one.
Lieutenant Hickman does not respond, sir.
Still no response, sir.
Open.
Captain, sensors detect two more Federation shuttlecraft on the planetsurface. No life signs.
Sir, I am certain we are being watched.
All shuttles are secure.
You search the structure. I will take the perimeter.
Commander.
I do not read any life signs on the surface.
That still leaves a search area of more than three hundred squarekilometres.
All scans are still negative.
We are adjusting sensors to read Commander La Forge's absorptionspectrum, but it will take several hours.
He could be several kilometres away by now.
Captain, I am picking up an unidentified device one point eightkilometres from the array.
Negative, sir. I show no activity.
Captain, the probe has begun to move. It is approaching the Enterprise.
Aye, sir.
Probe now closing at fifteen point three metres per second. Collisioncourse.
The probe is matching our speed and course.
Sir, the shuttlecraft shields did not provide sufficient protection forits computer. Our computer may also be vulnerable. I recommend withdrawal to asafe distance.
The probe is following.
Sir, recommend full phasers.
Firing phasers.
No effect, Captain.
Aye, sir.
The probe is still with us, sir.
Yes, sir.
Captain, we're dropping to impulse.
Aye.
Aye, Commander.
Now, create a standard alphanumeric console positioned for lefthand. Now an iconic display console positioned for right hand. Tie bothconsoles into the Enterprise main computer core, utilising neural-scaninterface.
Captain, we have lost computer control.
Computer is coming back online, sir.
By Barclay.
Captain, I am picking up subspace distortion.
Audio is disconnected. We may speak freely.
Sir, the subspace distortion continues to increase.
Sir, we're going in.
Audio's disconnected.
Aye, Captain.
Phasers. Maximum setting.
Conduits.
He is protected by a force field. We could not disconnect him.
Captain!
I had not been informed that Council Members had been granted bridgeclearance.
Welcome aboard.
Nice legs. For a human.
Sir, I protest. I am not a merry man.
Sorry.
I don't know how you transferred secret information to the Romulans, but
When we inform the Klingon High Council, they will put you to a slowdeath.
Excuse me, Captain, I didn't know that
Captain, I have been pursuing the investigation of Lieutenant J'Dan. Ibelieve I know how he transferred information off the Enterprise.
 This is J'Dan's. A hypospray he uses to treathis Ba'ltmasor Syndrome. But this has been fitted with an optical readerspecially modified to read data from Starfleet isolinear chips. He can extractdigital information from a computer, encode it in the form of amino acidsequences, and transfer those sequences into a fluid in the syringe. Then heinjects someone, perhaps even without their knowledge.
The information would be carried in their bloodstream in the form ofinert proteins.
I would be honoured. Captain. Admiral.
I have tracked the movements of every person who has left the Enterprisesince you have been here. I traced one Tarkanian diplomat as far as the Crucessystem where he disappeared and has not been seen since.
A hyposyringe was discovered in your quarters.
But your injections do not include an optical chip reader. This devicehas but one function, to transform computer information into biologicalsequences.
J'Dan did not make friends easily. There are not many to question.
I am strongly motivated in this matter.
My father?
What he did or did not do is no one's concern but my own
If there is a conspiracy on board, I promise you I will find it.
I will arrange for the interviews to begin.
We should continue to investigate Tarses. He was hiding something.
You and Crewman Marcus will coordinate to track Tarses' movements overthe last five years. Ensign Kellogg, I want a list of all relatives, knownassociates, and especially old school friends. And make arrangements to do anencephalographic polygraph scan.
Yes, Captain?
You are dismissed. Please get your reports to me as soon as possible.
Sir?
I do not understand.
But we know there is a traitor here. J'Dan has admitted his guilt.
Tarses has all but done the same.
He refused to answer the question about his Romulan grandfather.
Sir, if a man were not afraid of the truth, he would answer.
Sir, the Federation does have enemies. We must seek them out.
The Enterprise could have been captured by the Romulans! Captain Picarddid the only thing he could.
Am I bothering you, Captain?
It is over. Admiral Henry has called an end to any more hearings on thismatter.
Admiral Satie has left the Enterprise.
I believed her. I helped her. I did not see what she was.
I think after yesterday, people will not be as ready to trust her.
Mrs Troi, I must protest your unauthorised presence on the Bridge.
Please, Madame! That is a torpedo launch initiator, and, it is Worf,
I have completed long range scans. There are no other life forms arepresent in this system.
None within sensor range.
Photon torpedoes armed and targeted.
First volley released.
Second volley released.
The warships are taking a standard attack posture. Staggered approachvectors, within weapons range.
Aye, sir.
Commander Riker, you will be out of shield range in five seconds.
Sir, an unidentified ship is emerging from the limb of the moon.
It claims to be an escort vessel from the Beta moon.
They do not answer, sir.
Captain, they are loading its phaser banks.
Captain, the emissaries.
WORF : Worf to Captain Picard.
WORF : The Governor and the two representatives have returned. I willescort them to the Observation Lounge.
Captain, I am receiving a message from the ship carrying the Trill host.
No, they are experiencing difficulty. They do not anticipate theirarrival for another nine hours.
Doctor.
Yes.
Doctor?
Both were engaged near the Ikalian asteroid belt. That's where the rebelsmust be hiding.
They might attack a freighter, but I doubt they would challenge a
You would test the Captain's word with me, Kell? Is it because I have nohonour in your eyes that you expect me to be disloyal?
Captain Picard does not lie. If he says there is no Federation assistanceto the rebels, there is none.
He will not disappoint you. If that is all.
Thank me?
My motives were personal, not political.
Captain, Governor Vagh has signalled he is ready to meet with you.
Sir, we are being hailed by Governor Vagh.
Klingon attack cruiser uncloaking, sir.
Two birds of prey approaching.
Which members of the crew could have accomplished that?
Procedure requires that I ask each of you where you were at eleven twentythree hours.
Was anyone with you?
Then there is someone on board who isn't what he or she seems to be.
Go ahead.
Sir?
La Forge!
Launch bay one shows ready, Commander.
Klingons do not pursue relationships. They conquer that which theydesire. However, Lieutenant D'Sora serves under my command. If she weremistreated, I would be very displeased, sir.
Yes, Captain.
Aye, Captain.
Captain?
I am puzzled, sir.
Captain, the only detectable bioelectric residuals are your own. You didnot
Sir?
Sir.
I cannot explain how an intruder entered this room, but I recommend we goto Red Alert.
Then I will order one of my officers to stand watch. Worf to Ensign
As you wish, Captain.
I am not registering a hull breach.
None, sir.
Captain.
I do not understand.
Seven more unusual incidents have been reported. No casualties or damage.
Captain! Explosive decompression on deck thirty seven.
A shuttlecraft is more manoeuvrable.
Sensors indicate deformation passing five hundred metres off thestarboard bow.
Deformation impact on deck fifteen, science section.
Reports coming in. Minimal damage.
Enter.
No, sir. My apologies, Captain. I can be back in uniform
It is not time yet.
I have been told that patience is sometimes a more effective weapon thanthe sword.
I have grown weary of bearing this dishonour.
No escort was scheduled.
Dismissed.
I would speak with you.
I am not a traitor.
I accepted discommendation to protect the Empire.
It was Duras' father who betrayed our people to the Romulans at Khitomer,not mine.
There is.
His family was too powerful. To expose him would have split the Empire.
I believe you to be a man of honour, Gowron. I ask you, restore my familyname.
But after your installation
Guinan?
You? Practise?
I practice at level fourteen.
Not a good bet today.
Klingons do not laugh.
He is a child and part human.
I do not laugh because I do not feel like laughing.
Perhaps it says that I do not feel like other Klingons.
He is having difficulty adjusting to life on Earth.
It will not be easy for him.
Captain, I request a leave of absence.
Thank you, sir.
Too long. We have much to discuss. I have asked Gowron to restore ourfamily honour. He has refused.
What do you mean?
You will?
How can this be done?
No.
Gowron has completed the Rite of Succession. It is our duty to supporthim.
We cannot regain honour by acting dishonourably.
I am the elder brother, Kurn. I speak for our family. We will back
Contact me when you have gained their support. Then I will be ready for
Do you know the strength of our enemies?
Gowron is nearly out of options. Soon he will have no choice
Everything we have on the Khitomer massacre.
No, sir.
Yes, sir.
Sir, those Federation records will help me prove that my father wasfalsely accused of treason.
Do not tie my hands now. I must be able to prove my father's innocence.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Your forces are weak, Gowron. You need help to fight the family of Duras.
I offer you four Klingon squadrons.
They are pledged to support my brother, Kurn.
Yes. His true bloodlines were hidden to protect him.
I am the elder brother. He will do as I say.
You know my price.
They will not intervene.
I can ask nothing more of him in this matter.
My duty as a Starfleet officer
Override engaged. Disruptors still not responding.
Disruptors online.
No. Don't you see? Their sensors will detect the weapons lock. If theythink we're helpless, they will try to board the ship. I can aim and firedisruptors manually when they drop their shields.
Thirty five thousand kellicams. Twenty thousand kellicams. Now withintransporter range.
They're dropping their shields.
Firing on second target.
Disruptors offline.
Incoming message.
The enemy has sustained major damage to its life support systems Theyhave disengaged.
Captain, we must intervene. The Duras family is corrupt and hungry forpower with no sense of honour or loyalty. They represent a grave threat to thesecurity of the Federation. Captain, you and I know that they have conspiredwith Romulans in the past. If they should be victors in this war, they willsurely form a new Klingon-Romulan alliance. That would represent a fundamentalshift of power in this quadrant. Starfleet must support Gowron. It is in theinterests of both the Federation and the Empire. I beg you, support us in ourcause.
Captain, I respectfully request that I be allowed to take an extendedleave of absence.
Captain.
Then I resign my commission as a Starfleet officer.
Enter.
No, sir.
As weapons officer.
Thank you, sir.
I was rescued from Khitomer by humans. Raised and loved by human parents.
Thank you, sir.
Permission to leave the ship, sir?
Goodbye.
I would speak with you.
It was Duras' father who betrayed our people to the Romulans at Khitomer,not mine.
Then I resign my commission as a Starfleet officer.
Aft shields buckling.
Aft shields are gone! We cannot win. We must withdraw.
We are entering the star's corona. We will reach the photosphere inthirty seconds.
Shields failing. Outer hull temperature exceeding design limit. Captain!
They're closing on us!
You drink with our enemies?
The repairs to the Hegh'ta are proceeding. The port stabilisers
It is my responsibility.
There is no time for this! We must make plans before those forces reach
Stop it! Do we to fall upon ourselves like a pack of Ferengi? The enemyis the Duras. We are at war!
We are at war. Gowron should forbid any challenges until we arevictorious.
A Klingon should place the good of the Empire above his own pride.
No.
What do you want?
Your family has never valued honour.
Then you should not have opposed Gowron.
An era where honour has no meaning? Where Klingons trade loyalties indark rooms and where the Empire is ruled from Romulus.
No.
I know. But it is not my way. This boy has done me no harm and I will notkill him for the crimes of his family.
No. No, you gave me his life, and I have spared it.
Request permission to return to duty, sir.
A cause for concern. For all we know, they could be threatening ourborder.
Not enough time.
A contest, perhaps. Between champions. Our captain against theirs.
On screen.
Gladly, sir.
Aye, Commander.
The positron density is point zero one three.
WORF : Electron concentration seven point nine five. Particle gradient,four over seven. We are two hundred and fifty kilometres from the planet'ssurface.
WORF : Navigational, life-support, propulsion normal.
Onboard systems do not appear to be disrupted by the field, but I canbarely read you, Commander.
Starboard thrusters destroyed. I may be able to land but I will not beable to take off. RIKER : Understood. Return to the Enterprise, Mister
Aye, sir.
I do not believe so. I have confidence in his ability as a warrior. Hewill be victorious.
Then why do we wait? If we attack the ship now, they will not be able tomaintain their scattering field.
It would end this stalemate.
Commander, sensors are picking up an electromagnetic disturbanceapproaching the Captain's position.
A variable induction field. Possibly a life form.
The field is erratic, appearing and disappearing, but it appears to bemoving toward him.
If it fails
Agreed.
The Tamarian and the entity are in close proximity. The Tamarian'slifesigns are fluctuating.
Aye, sir.
They have closed the channel.
Unless we attack the ship itself.
Phasers nearly ready, sir.
Their particle beam emitters are inoperative, sir.
Aye, sir.
Starboard shields holding at fifty two percent. Forward shields are gone.
They are matching our manoeuvres, sir, and firing.
Firing, sir.
Their shields are holding. They are firing again.  Our shieldshave failed.
Aye, Captain.
I've tried. No response.
Sir, receiving another signal of a vessel leaving orbit of Solarion Four.
This ship is prepared to defend itself if necessary.
Yes, sir.
Check the transport log.
Maintain tricorder security link.
He admits responsibility for dozens of attacks on Cardassian targets. Whyshould we believe him about Solarion Four?
He fears our reprisal.
If they did not attack Solarion Four, then who did? And why would anyonewant to falsely implicate the Bajora?
The Bajoran vessel is moving up from the surface, Captain.
Audio channel open. The ship does not have visual capabilities.
Cardassian warships, Galor class, type three.
They're increasing power to their forward weapon grid.
Open.
The Cardassians are within visual range.
They are hailing us, sir.
The Cardassians are moving toward the Bajoran vessel, Captain.
The Bajoran ship has been destroyed.
Captain, sensors indicate a disturbance near the outpost on Melona Four.
I cannot tell. We are still too far away. It could be an electricalstorm.
Aye, sir. Captain, there is no response from Melona colony, but thedisturbance in the atmosphere is increasing.
At current speed, twenty seven hours.
Sir, the disturbance on Melona is becoming more intense.
Still no response, sir.
Six hours.
Commander? Commander Riker, are you there?
I cannot, sir. There is no response.
Sir, the Brechtian Cluster is now five light years away.
Sir.
A large mass approaching at warp speed.
Yes, sir.
Sickbay?
Yes, sir.
Over here.
 There will be a sharp pain as I set the bone.
Keiko?
Perhaps you should lie down.
I believe that is not uncommon in the late months of pregnancy.
You cannot. This this is not a good time, Keiko.
Your contractions are now only thirty seconds apart. Dilation has gone toseven centimetres since the onset of labour. That did not take long.
You are doing very well. I am sure the child will arrive soon.
Turned?
I am not certain. Can't you tell?
Yes. No. I have taken the Starfleet Emergency Medical Course. In acomputerised simulation, I assisted in the delivery of a human baby.
I am sure everything will be fine.
Congratulations. You are fully dilated to ten centimetres. You may nowgive birth.
Bearing down is the next stage. It should start at full dilation. Why hasit not begun?
The computer simulation was not like this. That delivery was veryorderly.
Did you feel an uncontrollable urge to push?
Good. You are bearing down. Now you must push with each contraction and Imust urge you gently but firmly to push harder. Push, Keiko. Push hard. Push,
The baby is emerging head first. One more contraction.
That's good. Push. Push. Hard. I have the baby. I will smack the child toinduce breathing.
Now I will cut the umbilical cord. Blanket. I believe she looks like
WORF : Bridge here.
WORF : I suppose that is acceptable.
Wesley. Tarvokian pound cake. I made it myself.
We've reached the designated coordinates, Captain. There is a shipbearing three two seven mark one five two on an intercept course.
The vessel is approaching, Captain.
I am attempting to isolate him with thermal sensors.
Unfortunately, he knows our procedures. He will avoid corridors andpublic areas. Commander, an unidentified heat source. Deck seven, sectiontwenty three. There.
Engaging tractor beam.
Captain, we are being hailed by the alien vessel.
Their weapons systems are substantially inferior to ours. They are not athreat.
Sir, the ship is locking phasers.
Do you know any Klingon opera?
Surely, you must know at least one theme from Aktuh and Maylota.
Worf to Enterprise.
A fat Ferengi
WORF : Has just entered the establishment.
WORF : It is.
Sir, a coded subspace signal from Romulus. It's the Captain.
The message did employ the proper coded sequence.
Sir, sensors are picking up three vessels crossing the Neutral Zone.
One four three mark zero one two.
They say they are escorting a peace envoy from Romulus to Vulcan. Theyrequest that we monitor Federation subspace channels. Ambassador Spock will bemaking an announcement shortly.
Sir, the Captain's orders were to maintain
One, sir. A Rutian archaeological vessel.
The Vulcan ships have entered Federation space. Maintaining low warp.
Incoming message from Romulus on all subspace channels.
Fourteen minutes, sir.
The Vulcan defence vessels are also responding. The Romulan force isretreating toward the Neutral Zone.
Visual range, Commander.
The warbird is powering up its forward disruptor array.
Aye, sir.
No, sir.
Sir.
I believe I know why our messages are not being answered. Gowron has beenrewriting Klingon history.
Yes. He is claiming it was his courage, his genius, which brought an endto the civil war.
In the new version there is no mention made of the Federation's help inhis rise to power.
Yes, sir.
Captain, we are being hailed by the Klingon home world.
Neither, sir. It is the junior adjutant to the diplomatic delegation.
B'iJik, sir.
WORF : Worf to Captain Picard.
WORF : A Klingon vessel is decloaking off our port bow. Compliments of
WORF : Aye, sir.
I have made contact, Commander.
Aye, sir.
We are approaching the designated coordinates, Commander.
Approaching the coordinates of the Tripoli, sir.
Commander, sensors detect a ship approaching at warp speed.
Negative. No transponder signal, no subspace marker.
The ship is coming out of warp, sir.
The ship is entering sector twelve delta four
He's powering up engines, turning to starboard.
Open.
Sir, the ship is locking phasers.
It's coming about.
There is an energy build up in their phaser banks. Sir, they'reactivating weapons.
Forward shields down to seventy two percent.
Forward shields down to sixty eight percent, aft shields forty percent.
Ready, sir.
Their forward shields are damaged, sir.
There was a space-time distortion, sir, and there is something backthere. We passed within three hundred kilometres of it.
The object is fifty kilometres ahead, sir.
Approximately five metres in length, sir.
No signs of any kind. Our sensors do not penetrate the hull.
That's odd.
We've received a response, sir, but
They want you to move over, sir.
Not the Enterprise, Captain. You.
Why now?
Usually. Why?
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
Including questionnaires?
I hate questionnaires.
Tomorrow?
Are you suggesting that an important event is imminent?
Phasers.
There were no phasers in the 22nd century.
The computer has locked in phaser depth calculations.
Target fourteen complete, sir.
The computer has stopped drilling.
Captain, I am detecting a massive earthquake on the surface. Twoearthquakes.
Yes, sir.
Two more eruptions, sir.
Computer, eliminate programme three. Computer, halfvolume.
WORF : Bridge to Commander Data.
Commander La Forge is hailing you from the surface, sir.
Warp power has being rerouted to the main deflector dish, Commander.
EPS taps online. Phasers firing.
If you will not open the vessel, I will. With explosives, if necessary.
Aye, sir.
Very exciting.
Transfer the signal to this station.
Mother.
Is father with you?
Very well. I will make arrangements for you to come aboard.
Hello, Alexander.
It is good to see you both. How long can you stay?
Mother, why does Alexander believe he is remaining?
Mother.
Mother. We need to talk about Alexander.
I don't remember you smiling when I knocked over that lamp.
Mother, you both have many years
Mother, that is not possible. We must find another option.
Difficulties?
Mother, Klingon children are often difficult to control.
My son is a liar?
Did you enjoy going to school on Earth?
Did you like your teachers?
Good. I understand you lived in my old room.
Good.
Alexander. The teacher asked you a question.
Yes. Yes, of course.
It has not been decided.
I apologise for being late, Captain. I was detained in school. I wasenrolling my son in class.
Worf here.
This is not a good time. I will contact you shortly, Miss Kyle. Sorry,
Yes, Doctor?
I would rather discuss this at a later time.
Thank you, Captain.
Yes.
Good.
Yes. We cannot attend.
I have a personnel review scheduled at thirteen hundred hours.
I might be able to reschedule the review.
Are you accusing him of stealing?
Alexander, did you take the model of the lizard from the table?
A Klingon's honour is more important to him than his life. A Klingonwould gladly face the most horrible punishment rather than bring shame ordisgrace to his family name. His word is his bond. Without it, he is nothing.
Why did you lie to me?
Did you fear the punishment you would receive?
You don't know why you lied, and yet you did. You don't know why youstole, and yet you did! Alexander, come here. When I was a child, younger thanyou, I lost my parents, my family, my people. Everything I had was taken fromme except my sense of honour. It was the one thing I had which was truly
And his brother, Morath. They fought for twelve days and twelve nightsbecause Morath had broken his word and brought shame to his family. When youlie or steal, you not only dishonour yourself, but your family. You dishonourme.
I accept your word. We will not speak of this matter again.
Counsellor?
You have not heard?
Bridge. There was an incident. Alexander stole a small model and thentold a falsehood. But I have remedied the situation.
I pointed out his error, told him about Kahless and Morath, and explainedthe value of honour. The boy understood.
Thank you, that will not be necessary. Alexander will not repeat thismistake.
Incoming message from Doctor Ja'Dar.
Several injuries reported on deck twenty seven. No fatalities.
Incoming message from Bilana Three, Captain.
I apologise. I was detained.
Thank you.
What sort of concerns?
Perhaps you do not have experience dealing with Klingon children. Theyrequire a firm hand.
I did not tell him that.
Computer, where is Alexander Rozhenko?
I will handle this.
Computer, what programme is being run?
Computer, freeze programme.
Yes, I saw. Why are you here?
But you did not ask permission to take my bat'leth, or permission to usethe holodeck.
I also said I wanted you to obey your teachers and keep your promise tome. Ms. Kyle has told me about your behaviour. About your lies.
Alexander, do not continue to
I will not listen to more lies. Return to our quarters.
Not now. Not after you have broken your word.
Enough! It is now clear to me that I have failed in my duties as yourfather. You have no understanding about what it means to be Klingon. I willarrange for you to attend a Klingon school. There you will learn the lessons Ihave failed to teach you.
Would you further dishonour our family with your disobedience?
You will go to our quarters and remain there until I return.
It is not a question of what I want. It is a question of what is best forthe boy. He will be better off at a Klingon school.
He is a child. I informed him of my decision.
You disapprove?
I will be pleased that he is receiving the guidance he requires.
That was different. At the time, I felt he needed a home, a family.
He was no burden. I simply knew that a Klingon child required moreattention than I could provide.
He was very young. I'm sure he was confused.
Are you saying that his misconduct is a result of feeling abandoned?
We argued.
Alexander. About how she did not tell me about him when he was born.
Yes.
Of course not.
Alexander.
Stop for a moment. Let us talk.
I want you to understand why you are going away.
You do not understand. I'm concerned about your future. A Klingon schoolwill be a better environment for you.
That is not true.
Alexander. If your mother were here I do not think she would want us tofight like this.
Acknowledged. Remain here. I will return shortly.
Excuse me.
The shields have not been fully restored. Shield strength is down tothirty three percent.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
Torpedoes loaded.
Deflector strength is down to twelve percent. There are fluctuations inseveral warp transfer conduits. Tractor beams and transporters offline.
Sir, there is a fire in biolab four, The fire suppression apparatus isnot functioning.
Sensors show he is alive. He may be injured.
Transporters are still offline.
Captain, permission to leave the bridge.
Stand clear.
Alexander!
Commander, I've found him!
Over here. Help me.
Lie still, I am here.
Thank you, Doctor.
Do not concern yourself with that.
Yes, but we will discuss that at a later time.
Klingon schools are designed to be difficult. The physical and mentalhardships faced by the students are meant to build character and strength.
I believe your mother would be pleased.
The Black Cluster is within visual range, Captain.
Aye, Captain.
Nothing, Commander.
The gravitational forces will affect sensor accuracy. Detecting an enemyvessel will be difficult.
We are approaching the perimeter. I'm picking up the gravitationalwavefronts.
Shields up.
Captain, I am reading something at four hundred thousand kilometres offthe starboard bow. Possibly a ship.
Sensor readings have disappeared. Wait, I am picking up another readingat four hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow. It's gone. No, it is backto starboard.
Aye.
Captain, that formation is seven times more massive than any exploredpreviously. That could explain the difference.
Captain, gravitational wavefront intensity is increasing steadily. Elevenhundred standard G units and rising.
Aye, sir. Gravitational distortion is too great, Captain. The scanningsignal is again being reflected off the wavefronts. I am unable to compensate.
The distortion is still in effect.
The secondary beam is being distorted as well.
Firing phasers.
Wavefront intensity has increased.
Aye, sir.
Minimal, sir. Shields are holding.
Aye.
Wavefront intensity has increased by an order of magnitude. Impact inthree, two, one.
Wave front intensity is continuing to increase. Structural over-pressurenow exceeding one hundred eighty percent.
Initiating warp-transfer pathways now.
Wavefront intensity has increased by a factor of ten. Contact in thirtyone seconds. Without additional power to the shields, the outer hull will nothold.
Impact in fifteen seconds.
Aye.
Klingons do not allow themselves to be probed.
I am not fearful.
On my way, sir.
What is Iresine syndrome?
Commander Riker and Counsellor Troi were in perfect health until the
Negative, sir.
Channel open.
Sir, defensive shield around the structure is increasing in strength.
They are responding.
Life support failure. Decks nine, twelve, and thirteen.
Losing life support systems on decks five through nine. Evacuationprocedures initiated.
Life support normal on all decks.
Why shouldn't we grant them asylum?
We saved them from destruction.
We are picking up a subspace signal, Captain. Sensors indicate a smallspacecraft ahead.
Within visual range.
No discernable armament. Reading one lifeform aboard.
No response, Captain.
Sir, the scans are now matching the frequency of our optical datanetwork. It could be an attempt to access our computer system.
The scanning signal has penetrated our shields.
Yes. Phaser power status, intruder scan, torpedo guidance. But they donot appear to be operable.
Perhaps we should not jump to conclusions. I am decorated as well.
Perhaps we were engaged in battle.
Bridge to all personnel. Select a representative from your group tocontact the Bridge and report on your status.
WORF : Remain where you are and stay calm. Bridge out.
I have completed a survey of our tactical systems. We are equipped withten phaser banks, two hundred and fifty photon torpedoes, and a high capacityshield grid.
It appears so.
Very well. Proceed.
Engineering is working on accessing the control systems. As soon as theship is operational, we must make it combat ready.
I disagree. We must first make ourselves ready for battle. That is thehighest priority.
Go ahead.
Well done. Now we are ready.
We now have full tactical control.
A full diagnostic would require us to take our systems offline. We wouldbe defenceless.
Proceed with the diagnostic.
What have you found, Doctor?
We are currently running a full diagnostic. Computer resources arelimited.
WORF : Bridge to survey team.
WORF : We have accessed the personnel files. Report to the Bridgeimmediately.
Captain. I regret my recent behaviour. I assumed an attitude of authoritythat was unwarranted.
Thank you, Captain.
If we use subspace radio we will be detected.
He's right, Captain. Our choice is clear.
Captain, we have crossed the Lysian border.
Aye, sir.
Captain, I am picking up a vessel directly ahead.
Within visual range.
The destroyer is increasing its speed. They are moving to intercept.
They are matching our manoeuvres.
Captain, the ship is hailing us again.
Shields up.
The ship has been destroyed.
The Lysian Central Command would have received any transmission from thedestroyer by now.
You wished to see me, sir?
I thought this as well.
You're concerned about the Captain?
Aye, sir.
Shields up. Phasers locked on targets.
We have yet to encounter any battleships. They may lie ahead.
Aye, sir.
Scanners read negative, sir, but they may be affected by theinterference.
Sir? The shuttlecraft's impulse generators have shut down.
I am picking up the shuttle's trace signature, but the surfaceinterference is distorting its position.
Captain, a major storm front is moving in on the away team's coordinates.
They're in turbolift four. Engaging override controls now.
Sir, the turbolift is moving again. They're still inside.
Aye, sir. They have been stopped at deck thirteen.
Everyone down, now!
I have no fear of death.
Captain, one person has suffered what looks like a level-five phaser hit,and four others have secondary burns. They require medical attention. And ourcaptors are not affected by phaser stun settings.
Spiritual possessions of this sort have been reported throughout Klingonhistory. It is called jat'yIn, the taking of the living by the dead.
Then you believe they may be telling the truth?
Sir, they know much about the Essex. If it is the spirit of Captain
After living disembodied for two centuries, perhaps they've gone mad.
To die defending one's ship is the hope of every Klingon.
Gladly, sir.
No apology necessary.
You have no idea.
Bluffing is not one of Counsellor Troi's strong suits.
It would have been unwise to call. Yes. My hand was not strong enough.
How did you know what I had?
What happened?
Doctor, I will not attempt to leave Sickbay without your approval. Therestraining field is not necessary.
But I can't move my legs.
Please, sit down, Commander. Thank you for agreeing to see me in thiscondition.
I am not merely injured, Commander. Doctor Crusher believes my paralysisto be permanent.
I have a personal favour to ask.
I want you to assist me in performing the Hegh'bat ceremony. I want youto help me die.
When a Klingon can no longer stand and face his enemies as a warrior,when he becomes a burden to his friends and family, it is time for the
No, there are not. I will not live as an object of pity or shame. My lifeas a Klingon is over.
You and I have served together for many years. Fought side by side I knowyou to be a brave and honourable man. If you truly consider me a friend, helpme now. Help me end my life as I have lived it, with dignity and honour.
You know why I left those instructions.
It is a question of honour, and I would ask you that you respect mywishes in this matter, Counsellor.
No. Please come in, Doctor.
No!  I will not live like that.
Sixty percent of my mobility. No, I will not be seen lurching throughcorridors like some half-Klingon machine, the object of ridicule and disgust.
Come in, Alexander.
I am still struggling with my injury.
There is much to discuss. There will be difficult times ahead. You mustbe strong.
Good. As Klingons, we must always be prepared for any
Take him away.
Leave!
I am ready, Commander.
It is not something I expect you to understand.
It is not easy for me. But each of us must die in our own time, and mytime
I do not welcome death, Commander.
Will you, or will you not, help me with the Hegh'bat?
That is impossible. He is a child.
Alexander is not fully Klingon he is part human.
I need you to help me.
I have taught you about Klingon customs, the beliefs which we value.
I must still undergo a dangerous operation. I may still die, but it willnot be by my own hand. Return this to our quarters.
We will speak again soon.
If I die, he must be cared for.
No. They are elderly. They cannot care for Alexander. Counsellor, I havea serious request to make of you. Would you consider?
I have come to have a great respect for you, Deanna. You have been mosthelpful in guiding me since Alexander's arrival. I can't imagine anyone whowould be a better parent to my son. If it is too much to ask.
I am ready.
It's all right, Counsellor. I would appreciate some help from my son. Wewill work together.
Probe is launched.
What is that?
That is a woman's game.
All those wild cards. They support a weak hand. A man's game has no wildcards.
Yes.
The J'naii. They bother me.
They just do. They're all alike. No males, no females.
What are you saying, Doctor?
A human and a J'naii? Impossible.
With all these wild cards, it is difficult to know exactly what is in myhand. However, I will open with fifty.
WORF : Lieutenant Worf.
Commander, I have the plan for deploying warning buoys around the nullspace.
Yes, sir.
Commander, I am aware of what transpired on the planet surface. Are youby any chance considering an unannounced visit? I will go with you.
Sir, you are my commanding officer. If you order me to stay on board, Iwill obey. But I ask you not to give that order. A warrior does not let afriend face danger alone.
I hope so.
No bet.
Fifty?
Fold.
He does not have a straight.
WORF : Bridge to Captain Picard.
WORF : We are getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometres off thestarboard bow.
It is a highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum.
Shields inoperative.
No response.
Engaging tractor beam.
I hope so.
No bet.
Is there something wrong, Doctor?
WORF : Bridge to Captain Picard.
WORF : We are getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometres off thestarboard bow.
It is a highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum.
Shields inoperative.
No response.
Engaging tractor beam.
I hope  so.
I am experiencing nIb'poH, the feeling I have done this before.
That's not what I mean.
Nine. Jack. Four.
WORF : A highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum.
Maybe we should reverse course.
Shields inoperative.
No response.
Engaging tractor beam.
I hope so.
I am experiencing nIb'poH. The feeling I have done this before.
That is not what I mean.
I was also sure.
WORF : A highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum.
Perhaps we should reverse course.
It is a highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum.
Shields inoperative.
No response.
Engaging tractor beam.
We are clear of the distortion.
Time base confirms our chronometers are off by seventeen point four days.
Captain, we are being hailed by the other vessel. The computer identifiesit as the USS Bozeman, a Federation starship, Soyuz class.
Captain, Starfleet Academy is requesting an update on our estimatedarrival.
Aye, sir.
Sir, we are being hailed again by the Academy. It is Admiral Brand.
Sir, she is requesting a private channel.
Forward tubes armed and ready, Captain.
A direct hit, sir.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
Captain, I am unable to get a positive lock with the tractor beam. Thereis magnetic field interference emanating from the core materials.
Aye, sir.
Particle beam activated. The target has been destroyed, Captain.
My instructions were clear.
Before he was allowed to play, he was to place his soiled clothing in thegarment reprocessor.
You were specifically told that.
You know very well the same rules apply today that
You suggest bribery.
I do  I do not yell.
Very well.
But you have to agree. That is what an agreement is. Counsellor Troi,excuse the intrusion, but we're having some difficulty drawing up our contract.
The boy is unreasonable.
It is Worf, Madam.
He will be sanctioned, yes.
I? Not perform my duty?!
Alexander. Be patient, she says.  Come. I can't believe this.
Isn't Alexander supposed to be with you?
Computer, what is the location of Alexander Rozhenko?
We have an intermittent failure of the inertial damping system.
Negative, sir.
Eat, son.
What are you doing? What is that noise?
That is enough, please. It is your dinner hour. Eat.
Will you stop doing that, please? Alexander, eat your food. Wisdom willwait, I assure you.
A Klingon ever breaks his word.
Where are you going?
I did not mean now. Now just sit down and eat.
Understand later. Just eat.
Mrs. Troi, it is Alexander's dinner hour.
Alexander, you will return to our quarters and have dinner.
Definitely not. My son is to return to quarters.
Captain, we've dropped to warp five point seven.
Aye, sir.
We must evacuate decks twenty through twenty four, Captain.
Aye, sir.
You're just supposed to sit here?
Within visual range, Captain.
Understood.
Unless you can arrange your own transport, you will have to remain on the
The captain dines alone.
WORF : Worf here, Captain.
Aye, sir. Security to cargo bay one.
One of the Ferengi.
What are you doing?
Is there a problem here?
Forward velocity is down by point two percent, and dropping.
This area is not designated for children. Are you lost? Where are yousupposed to be?
Return to your quarters, and we will forget this incident.
Forward velocity is dropping, Captain. Down by point four percent.
Forward velocity down by one point one percent.
We are no longer losing speed. Forward velocity is holding steady.
Warp field generators are standing by.
Captain, forward velocity is down by point six percent. 
Forward velocity holding.
Worf here, sir.
WORF : And a blue dress.
Yes sir, I have seen her.
Two days ago, near Engineering. She was with Miss Sutter.
WORF : Aye, sir.
Sir, something is heading toward us, bearing one oh three mark oh twofour.
Shield strength dropping to seventy five percent. Seventy two percent.
Shield strength has dropped to sixty four percent.
Kill it now. Make it appear that it died in the crash.
WORF : Leave no evidence that we were ever here.
Four more. None survived.
Lower the forcefield.
Captain, the Borg is still unconscious.
I will follow the Commander. Reactivate the field once we're through.
Commander.
Lower the forcefield.
WORF : Worf to Captain Picard.
WORF : We are ready to transport.
Commander. Emergency bulkheads have sealed this section off from the restof the ship. There is no way to gain access to the main Bridge or controlcentres.
Readings indicate at least seventy three Romulans are still alive.
We must get the doors closed.
Commander!
Commander, the  the Romulans want a computer. We cannot givethem access to Federation technology. That is an unacceptable security risk.
That would be satisfactory.
Aye, sir. Thank you.
What kind of service?
Sir, shuttlecraft four has not yet cleared the Romulan ship.
Human custom is to conduct a solemn, dignified service in which the deadare praised by their friends and loved ones.
The Bajoran Death Chant is over two hours long.
Shuttlecraft four has just cleared.
Commander, I am not the proper person to advise you.
I am very happy for Commander La Forge. He has crossed over to that whichis beyond. For a Klingon, this is a joyful time. A friend has died in the lineof duty and he has earned a place among the honoured dead. It is not a time tomourn.
Commander, may I speak with you?
No sir, but it has assumed a relative position and it is holding coursewith us.
Sir, I am detecting a low-level nucleonic beam coming from the probe.
Sir, the beam is penetrating our shields.
Where did you get this?
We should destroy the probe. Phasers are armed and ready.
The Captain is under attack. We must act.
Yes, Commander.
Negative, sir.
A fraction of a second would make them invisible?
Some kind of guerilla war?
If we find Commander Data, it may be our fate to die with him in thepast. If our remains are in that cavern, they would have turned to dust longago.
Sir, as Chief of Security, my place is at your side.
Yes, sir. Worf to Enterprise.
Beam me up.
WORF : Bridge to Away team. Acknowledge.
WORF : Yes, Commander.
Sir. Permission to speak frankly.
Our priority is to stop the aliens from any more incursions to Earth. Anydelay is unacceptable.
The Captain would not. I recommend we target photon torpedoes on thealien habitat and destroy it. Immediately.
Commander, I have set the photons to fire in staggered rounds, detonatingin ten second intervals.
The sequence will be ready to initiate in one minute.
Commander La Forge has completed the reconfiguration of the photontorpedoes.
We have no way of knowing if Mister Clemens was successful.
Aye, sir.
Yes, sir.
Torpedoes away, sir.
We have destroyed the target. There is no further indication of triolicactivity.
No response.
Unlikely. The escape pods are still on board.
Blast analysis indicates the explosion originated here, in the centre ofthe transport chamber.
A mouth.
Aye, sir.
WORF : Right away.
Understood. Follow me.
Phasers online. Photon torpedoes armed and ready.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
That will be all for today. There will be another class tomorrow at ohseven hundred hours.
WORF : Worf to Commander Riker.
WORF : Can you report to Ambassador Alkar's quarters? There is anemergency.
WORF : Worf here, Captain.
WORF : Captain, Ambassador Alkar is at the negotiation table and cannot bedisturbed.
WORF : Worf here, Captain.
WORF : Aye, sir.
Captain, I am sure the Seronians have re-activated their security field.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
Worf to Captain Picard. Ambassador Alkar is dead.
We have entered a massive gravitational field, Captain.
Sir, I have located the distress signal. It is coming from a point in thenorthern hemisphere.
Aye, sir.
Sir. I have restored life support. The oxygen levels will return tonormal shortly.
Yes.
Aye, sir.
We're being pulled inside.
Sir, Sensors show a large magnetic disturbance on the star's surface.
Shields are up, but only at twenty three percent.
Shields still holding, sir, but they are down another fifteen percent.
No, sir. The exterior shell is composed of carbon neutronium. Our weaponswould be ineffective.
Sir, there is an audio message from Commander La Forge.
Photon torpedoes armed and ready, sir.
There may still be a residual discharge. Stand clear.
I would like my hair trimmed.
Not like last time.
I had a similar response, but to a pair of scissors.
I may have. I do not have a distinct memory of it.
It was elevated? A platform.
No, the table was smaller. And it was inclined. Computer, decrease thetable's surface area by twenty percent and incline the top fifteen degrees.
There was something attached to it. A tool of some sort. Scissor-like.
Captain, sensors indicate that Lieutenant Hagler has returned to the
Perhaps we could construct a homing device. Something that our sensorscould track.
Captain. Commander Riker has been taken from the Enterprise.
WORF : Worf to Picard. There is an emergency message from Commander Riker.
Aye, sir.
Captain, there is too much ionisation in the atmosphere. Transporters areuseless.
WORF : Enterprise to shuttlecraft Fermi.
WORF : We have just received a distress signal from the Starfleet scienceteam on Ligos Seven.
WORF : No, sir. The call was cut off in mid-transmission.
WORF : Aye, sir.
The shuttle has been enveloped by an energy field. It's engines and lifesupport have failed.
The probe. Aye, sir.
WORF : Bridge to Commander Riker.
WORF : We are entering orbit around Ligos Seven, sir.
No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships decloaking foreand aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class.
We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems.
Phasers locked.
Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline.
Down to thirteen percent.
Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven.
We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five throughforty.
Captain, I am sorry to interrupt.
I was hoping to take advantage of the Biko's delay by staging shipwidesecurity drills. I have planned a tentative schedule.
In that case, I will use the time to perform maintenance checks on theforward phaser array.
No, sir. I simply wish to use the extra time
Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
The Captain saw fit to release me from my duties.
I can go.
Where are we?
What is our function here?
So, we are in law enforcement.
You wrote this holodeck programme yourself?
I must have a little talk with Mister Barclay.
So I am here to apprehend him?
You are under arrest.
You will come with me.
What is wrong?
Where are they going?
You are under arrest.
You have been accused of committing a homicide.
I'm beginning to see the appeal of this programme.
You are a murderer and a thief.
What are his rights in this century? Is there be a trial or shall Iexecute him?
What old man are you referring to?
Yes. When your pa comes, we will be ready for him.
I am sure the three of us can handle any problems.
Counsellor, I would appreciate some support in this matter.
Yes, er, Counsellor Durango, perhaps you would consider becoming atemporary deputy?
Alexander we require large amounts of currency.
Deanna, how do you know so much about this period in Earth's history?
Why hank you. Miss?
I will not be able to come this evening. I have a prisoner.
That's very considerate of you, but I would be negligent in my duties if
Who?
I was looking for my deputy. Perhaps you have seen him.
Klingon fire wine.
Commander, what are you doing here?
Nothing. Nothing at all, Mister Hollander. What is it you want?
That is impossible. Your son is to stand trial for murder.
You have nothing I want.
What about him? Where is he? I do not negotiate with criminals. Your sonwill stand trial.
Commander, what are you doing?
Data? Commander? Computer, freeze programme.
The holodeck safeguards are not functioning. Alexander's in trouble.
There's another character in the programme. Hollander's father. And helooks like Commander Data.
But it is not Data. I cannot explain. I believe he has taken Alexander.
Where have they taken my son? Where is he?
You are right. I will begin by speaking to the people of this town.
I spoke to several witnesses who saw Alexander being abducted as he wasleaving the bank by one of Hollander's men. We must begin a systematic searchof the town.
Remove your weapon.
I have reconsidered your offer. I will release your son in exchange formy deputy.
Agreed.
But we have made an honourable agreement.
I will be positioned here, at the eastern end of the street. Frank
There's a rain barrel in front of the saloon. It should be enough to stopthe bullets.
Excellent.
Oh, yes. Thank you, Miss Annie. I am in your debt.
I have connected the communicator's energy cell to serve as the powersource.
No more than fifteen seconds. It is highly unstable.
Alexander!
Do not show your face in this town again.
Are you all right?
End programme.
Computer, end programme.
 Computer, end programme! Computer! Now!
The town of Deadwood may face danger once again. If they do, they willneed a Sheriff and a deputy.
Commander, is it your intention to continue to grow your beard?
I am just asking.
Why is that?
I'm not concerned with fashion. To a Klingon, a beard is a symbol ofcourage.
Doctor, if you wish to master the bat'telh sword, you must learn tostrike and avoid in the same motion.
Almost.
Radiation field is increasing. We are losing communications.
Can we send a shuttlecraft to evacuate them?
Aye, sir. Coordinates received.
You increased the difficulty level, sir.
It would be helpful to know something about our mission.
Shuttlecraft Feynman to Enterprise. We have cleared the shuttlebay.
I am not familiar with metagenics.
Leaving the planet safe to be conquered. Wouldn't using such a weaponpose as great a risk to the attacker as to the target?
What do we know about Celtris Three?
Celtris Three is in Cardassian space. How will we get there undetected?
Bats?
Of course not.
You're not afraid of heights, are you, Doctor?
I doubt it.
A phaser set to level sixteen should suffice.
I have her.
Sensor echoes established, but the false image will only last a fewminutes. The hatch is magnetically sealed, but I believe I can bypass it.
Ready.
Captain!
The Captain.
The Captain!
Aye, sir.
Captain, the shuttlecraft is emerging from the nebula.
Standing by.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
I don't understand.
Controls are not responding.
Sir, warp core temperature is rising. Approaching critical levels.
Core temperature dropping.
WORF : Worf here, sir.
There are force fields blocking our access to the holodeck. It will taketime to disable them.
Aye, sir.
Captain.
Commander, the shuttlecraft is gone. There is no one on board.
We're ready, Commander.
Commander, there are DNA traces here. Klingon.
Yes, but I only found DNA from one Klingon so far. I will continue toscan.
Governor Torak, sir.
Then the remains we found must be those of Lieutenant Rocha.
If that is true, then Morag or some other Klingon must have boarded thestation after she left. We found traces of Klingon DNA on the station.
Have the courage to admit your mistakes. Or are you a lo'Be Vos?
Commander. It is set to kill.
That means that someone deliberately changed the setting. And then thereis the matter of your conflict with Lieutenant Rocha.
Aye, sir.
This way.
Do you think this is what happened with your hand?
I do not understand.
How often do they have to change bodies?
There was one other person on the station. Morag. It is possible he wasthe one who was absorbed.
Where did she go?
Aye, sir.
Do not move.
You will come with me.
The man acted dishonourably. He is a traitor.
That does not excuse his original actions.
Aye, sir.
Captain, he has deceived us.
Was he a Romulan?
Captain, he could be leading us into a trap.
Captain, we are being hailed.
Aye, sir.
Yes, sir.
Captain, they have fired on us.
We sustained a direct hit, but the damage was negligible. The disruptorhad almost no power.
A compressed teryon beam.
WORF : Can I help you?
Can I help you, Mister Picard?
This is not for me. You should take it to Commander La Forge in
Is something wrong?
You are a Lieutenant junior grade, Assistant Astrophysics officer.
What is this?
Delicious.
I am Lieutenant Worf.
What of it?
You have no information I could use.
My father died twenty five years ago at Khitomer.
My father is dead.
How is that possible?
Tell me what you know.
Where is this planet?
A Klingon would rather die than be taken prisoner. I should kill you forspreading lies about my family. My father was killed defending Khitomer.
Ensign Lopez. This duty roster is unacceptable. The assignments should belisted in order of priority. Prepare it again. I will expect it no later thanoh nine hundred hours. Dismissed.
I am well aware of your request, Commander.
Yes, sir. I am fine. I will send your schedule, sir. Excuse me.
Enter.
No.
He made a mistake. The duty roster was inaccurate.
Today on the Promenade, a Yridian approached me. He knew who I was andtried to sell me information about Mogh.
He claimed that he's alive and is being held captive in a Romulan prisoncamp.
A Klingon would never allow himself to be captured. A warrior fights tothe death. If my father were alive it would dishonour his sons and their sonsfor three generations. Even Alexander would bear the burden of guilt.
My father is dead. That Yridian is selling lies!
Wait. What is it, Commander?
A moment.
Yes. When I was young my adoptive parents arranged for me to partake inthe Rite of MajQa.
Why are you asking me about this?
What happened?
You are very fortunate. That is a powerful vision.
You must find its meaning. If it has anything to do with your father, youmust learn all you can about it. In the Klingon MajQa ritual, there is nothingmore important than receiving a revelation about your father. Your father ispart of you, always. Learning about him teaches you about yourself. That is whyno matter where he is or what he has done, you must find him.
Yes, of course. Do not stop until you have the answer.
Yes. I wish to go to the Romulan prison camp.
No. You will take me there.
I checked the station records. You have a vessel that is capable of warpspeed.
What is the real reason you do not wish to take me? Is it because whatyou have told me is not true?
Dangerous? It would be more dangerous for you to refuse.
No. No, I will pay you after.
If you are lying, if there is no prison camp, I will kill you.
The foliage is very dense. It will take me approximately twelve hours toreach the camp. I may have to travel during the night.
I am prepared.
How did you learn of this camp?
Why have you not informed the Klingon government of this place?
You do this for profit.
What reasons could you have for letting these people suffer?
When will you return?
Stop, please,
I've come to help you.
Yes. How did you get out of the camp? Does anyone know you are gone?
You must lead me to the camp.
That does not matter. I have come to take you home.
It is very important you tell no one you saw me.
Quiet! I'm a friend.
Worf, son of Mogh.
I have come to find my father. Is he alive? Is he here?
Did he die in battle?
You were captured.
Romulans. They robbed you of your right to die in battle. There's verylittle time. How many Klingons are being held here?
How many Romulans guard the camp?
What do you mean?
I still have the scar. I do remember you now.
I do not understand.
I am Worf, son of Mogh. I have come to help you escape.
If my father were alive, it would his sons and their sons for threegenerations. Even Alexander would bear the burden of guilt.
My father is dead. That Yridian is selling lies.
That does not matter. I have come to take you home.
Are you afraid to die while escaping?
Why did you allow it to happen?
I understand your desire to preserve your family's honour. But what ofyour own? There is no honour in remaining prisoners.
If he had been captured as you were, if I had found him here, I would beglad to see him. There is no room in my heart for shame.
This is a gin'tak spear.
Have your parents taught you nothing? This is used for battle, nottilling soil.
What war?
That war was over many years ago.
Not by choice.
The war.
A place can be safe and still be a prison. Where I come from, people arefree to come and go as they choose.
Tell your father that you would like to leave. Tell him that you wouldlike to visit the Klingon Home world. See what he says.
Not any longer.
Enter.
It is a strange thing when a jailer concerns himself with his prisoner'scomfort.
You robbed the Klingons of who they were. You dishonoured them.
I do not expect you to understand. You are a Romulan.
Why did you do it?
Do not deceive yourself. These people are not happy here. I see thesadness in their eyes.
Do you know what that song means?
Never.
This is the mok'bara. The form clears the mind and centres the body.
No. Like this. First you must learn to breathe. Stand tall. As tall asyou can. Now, take a wider stance.
These forms are the basis for Klingon combat. You would be wise to learnthem. I will teach you. Join us.
Yes.
This is a warrior's armour. And this is a d'k tahg.  It shouldnot be allowed to rust like this.
That is a jinaq. It is given to a daughter who has come of age, oldenough to take a mate.
Why is she forbidden to know what these things are?
Kahless held his father's lifeless body in his arms. He could not believewhat his brother had done. Then his brother threw their father's sword into thesea, saying, if he could not possess it, neither would Kahless. That was thelast time the brothers would speak.
Kahless looked into the sea and wept, for the sword is all he had left ofhis father. The ocean filled with his tears and flooded beyond the shore.
For you, perhaps. Not Kahless. He was a great warrior.
No. These are our stories. They tell us who we are.
Yes. He found it.
I have studied them all of my life, and find new truths in them everytime.
That is another story.
You are Romulan.
How could your mother mate with a Romulan?
It is an obscenity.
Romulans are treacherous, deceitful. They are without honour.
He took part in a cowardly attack at Khitomer. Thousands of Klingons weremassacred, many of them women and children.
Ask him. Ask your mother. Tell them you want to know the truth.
I am sorry if I upset you.
I was surprised. I became angry. But I do not blame you. You cannot helpbeing what you are.
What I mean is, it is not your fault.
No, I. It is hard to explain. Klingons and Romulans are blood enemies.
But I don't live here.
I do not know.
Ka'la!
The qa'vak is not a game. It hones the skills of the hunt.
Klingons do not hunt because they need food. The hunt is a ritual thatreminds us of where we come from.
It is a difficult skill to master. Perhaps you are too young.
Your arm is strong, but you need practice. Hold your other arm like thisand aim along it. Roll.
You learn quickly. Perhaps it is time to put your skills to the test.
Come. I will take you on the hunt.
I think they will.
The boy can come with me. I cannot sit in the compound like an old man. Imust practice my skills.
I give you my word as a warrior. I will not try to escape.
He is there. The wind has shifted. We must wait.
Never approach your prey from upwind. The breeze will carry your scent.
He is there.
Remember the scent. More than anything else, it will guide you.
Let it work its way into your blood.
Yes. This is the moment where life and death meet. This is what we are.
There is much you were never taught.
I have done nothing more than show them what they are.
And what about Toq? I saw what happened to him when he caught the scentof his prey on the wind. For the first time in his life, he felt powerful, andthat is what he has been denied living here. And that is what you have tried totake away from him. Now you may be content to sit here in the jungle and witherto old age, but Toq and the others have tasted what it is to feel truly alive,and they will not give that up now.
Or?
Then that is what you will have to do.
That death will be honourable. The young people will see what it is todie as a Klingon.
Enter.
Why are you doing this?
I am not going to run away, Ba'el.
Yes. But they will not defeat me.
A Klingon does not run away from his battles.
Then you do not yet understand what it is to be Klingon.
I would not have thought it possible to love a Romulan.
Yes.
If there were a way, I would take you away with me.
And if I stay here, these Klingons will not accept me for what I am.
Ba'el.
Those are eloquent word, Tokath, but the truth is, I am being executedbecause I brought something dangerous to your young people. Knowledge.
You see, Tokath? It is already too late.
Years ago, your parents made a great sacrifice for the sake of theirfamilies. Today, they do so again. For that, we must honour them. You mustpromise them never reveal to their secret. No one must know of this place.
Thank you, sir.
No, sir. There was no prison camp. Those young people are survivors of avessel that crashed in the Carraya system four years ago. No one survived
Captain.
After you, sir.
No sir. I believe you spoke first.
The computer needs your authorisation to disable command functions duringthe baryon sweep.
Captain, incoming message. It's the station administrator, Mister Orton.
Captain. Request permission to be excused from Commander Hutchinson'sreception.
I found it. Someone put it in a maintenance locker.
Captain, you keep a saddle on board?
Of course.
Thank you.
Captain. The Federation Outpost on Bersallis Three reports that they areentering a period of fire storm activity.
WORF : Bridge to Captain.
WORF : Bersallis Three reports that the storm has changed its speed andheading. They are predicting it will hit the outpost within eight hours, andare requesting evacuation.
Seventeen minutes.
Captain, the storm will reach the northern perimeter in four minutes.
The storm has reached the perimeter.
WORF : Bridge to Captain.
WORF : We have found survivors, sir. They are beaming up now.
Captain, a distress call from Professor Galen's shuttle. On screen.
Transmission has been blocked.
A Yridian destroyer.
Aye, sir.
The shuttle is enveloped by a tractor beam. The transporter cannotpenetrate it.
They are not responding.
I don't understand, Commander. The phaser blast was not powerful enough todestroy the ship.
Were the Yridians able to get these number blocks?
No, sir. We detected no transmissions.
We are about to enter the Indri system, sir.
Some kind of plasma reaction is consuming the lower atmosphere.
No, sir. The reaction is global.
Aye.
They are hailing us.
Captain, a Klingon attack cruiser decloaking off the starboard bow. Theyare hailing us.
Direct hit on our port nacelle. They are powering up for another volley.
They are firing.
The Cardassian vessels have set a course for Rahm Izad.
And you have been shadowing us ever since.
If you fire, others will also. Many will die.
This is the last known location of the research team. They had occupied asmall building in the south-west quarter of the city. You will begin yoursearch there.
This apparel will allow you to pass as a common merchant. This Tilonianpendant is equipped with a communicator circuit.
I suggest you pay closer attention, Commander. Your life will be atstake. Do you understand what I am saying?
Because you will be posing as a merchant, you will need to know how touse the nisroh for the traditional bartering ceremony.
You will be judged on your prowess with the blade.
I am sorry, Commander! I did not intend
I was angry. They were attacking me. I fought back.
I was injured.
There was a struggle and I
I was being watched.
I tried to fight them off.
Do not listen to him, Commander. He is trying to trick you. You are indanger here. Let us help you.
Commander, you must come with us. You are in danger here.
Silence.
Worf to Enterprise. The pattern enhancer has been activated. Three tobeam up.
We have been checking on the hospital Administrator.
WORF : Enterprise here. Are you all right, sir?
The solar radiation is interfering. He must be at least five hundredthousand kilometres from the star before we can get a transporter lock.
Perhaps he could not live with the failure of his invention and took hisown life.
The plasma shock could have affected his nervous system. He may havereacted by gripping tighter.
Is your examination complete, Doctor?
Very well.
Aye, sir. Sir, she has isolated her navigational control. It will not bepossible to establish remote operation.
I cannot establish a lock. She is too close to the star. Solarinterference is too high.
Sir, we have lost contact.
Sir, we are picking up an object emerging from the corona.
Torva luk do shel! Torva
Enter.
Captain.
Sir.
It is difficult to explain.
Ever since I returned from the Carraya system I have felt empty.
They were young. They knew nothing of their heritage. So while I wasthere, I tried to teach them. Teach them about their people, their culture. Itold them our ancient stories, instructed them in our customs, explained ourbeliefs. And then I told them about Kahless. How he united our people long ago.
Yes. I was trying to summon a vision of Kahless.
Using the holodeck would not have been appropriate. Everything had to bereal if Kahless were to appear. But all this was is nothing. He did not come tome. I gave Toq and the others a belief in Sto-Vo-Kor, the life which liesbeyond this life where Kahless awaits us. When I saw the power of their beliefs
To lose something, one must first possess it. I am not sure I ever had atrue belief. But I should not have allowed it to interfere with my duties. Mybehaviour has been
Boreth. The Followers of Kahless await his return there. To Klingons,there is no more sacred place.
Thank you, sir.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
It has been ten days, Koroth. I have had no visions. I have received noinsight. There is nothing here for me.
When Kahless had united our people and gave them the laws of honour, hesaw that his work was done. So one night he gathered his belongings anddeparted for the edge of the city to say goodbye.
Then Kahless said, 'You are Klingons. You need no one but yourselves. Iwill go now to Sto-Vo-Kor. But I promise one day I will return.' Then Kahlesspointed to a star in the sky and said, 'Look for me there, on that point oflight.'
Torva luk do shel. Torva luk
I see Kahless.
You are real.
I was getting my tricorder.
No, no. It is a tool. I intended to use it to see
You are Klingon.
There are many possibilities. A shape shifter, a holographic projection.
How do you know my name?
I want to believe.
Questions are the beginning of wisdom, the mark of a true warrior.
If the commander is worthy of their trust.
No.
There is another possibility. He could be the real Kahless. He may haveactually returned as he promised.
I did not say that he is. I merely think we should not completely rejectthe possibility.
It is not an empirical matter. It is a matter of faith.
Perhaps some other time, Commander. I do not believe I can provide muchinsight at this minute.
It is true. Kahless has returned.
I am sorry. Our replicators do not do justice to Klingon Warnog.
Kahless, may I ask you about death and Sto-Vo-Kor? Tell me, what awaitsus beyond this life.
Me?
It will be glorious!
He is Kahless. Your own test proved it.
It is not Koroth, it is
But it does not have to be this way. We could all join together andwelcome Kahless as a united people.
You do not understand. Kahless is our future. Only with his help can werevive the pure warriors within ourselves. Listen to him, Gowron. Open yourheart. Hear his words. He will restore your faith as he has restored mine. Givehim a chance to lift your spirit and cleanse your heart before you take uparms.
Koroth!
That is a lie. He did not
There is no future here. No glorious new era for our people. Gowron wasright. You did not know the name of the man who faced the storm. You do noteven know what real warnog tastes like. And you certainly are not the greatestwarrior of all. Whoever you are, you are not Kahless.
You are using the name of Kahless for some twisted game. For that alone,you should die. And if you do not tell me what you have done, I will kill youright here.
A clone. He is a clone.
A being created in a laboratory by genetic material taken from anotherbeing. You are a copy. A fraud.
They grew you in a test tube like some kind of fungus and programmed youlike a machine.
You talk to me of truth? You, who have brought to life this lie andcalled it Kahless?
They do not need a false god.
I am. I will not let this fraud continue.
Do not give me orders, Koroth.
Then they are fools.
Yes.
I do not know.
You?
How did you come to your decision?
The man who appeared to me on Boreth is not Kahless. He is a clone.
Yes.
It does not matter, Gowron. You will still not be able to stand againsthim.
I said he was not the Kahless, but in the minds of our people he can bejust as powerful as Kahless. Even now, two members of your own crew are sittingon our Holodeck waiting for him to return.
But hey are not alone. Like many of our people, they need something tobelieve in, just like I did. Something larger than themselves, something thatwill give their lives meaning. They need Kahless.
It will not matter, Gowron. Despite the facts, they will still believe.
No, that would be unwise as well.
You were right about one thing, Koroth. Our people are becoming decadentand corrupt. They need moral leadership. Kahless can be that leader, as
The political power will remain with the High Council. Kahless would be afigurehead, but he will have the ability to rally the people, to lead byexample, to guide them in spiritual matters.
Real power comes from within the heart. You would have the power to moldthe Klingon heart. You could return them to honourable ways according to theoriginal teachings of Kahless which are within you. It would be a greatchallenge, if you have the courage to accept it.
We will tell them the truth. All of the truth. But we will tell them thateven if he is not the real Kahless, he is the rightful heir to Kahless.
Then my brother and those who support him on the Council will fight you,and I will fight you. And the Empire will fall back into civil war.
Goodbye.
I went to Boreth to find my faith. For a time I thought I had. But myheart is empty again. I do not know what to believe.
Q'apla Kahless.
A ship could have been caught in the distortion field and crashed. Thesurvivors may have taken refuge here.
Worf to Enterprise. Two to beam up.
We are losing time. Lieutenant Riker should be here.
You were supposed to report here at eight hundred hours.
The primary EPS coupling is fused. The entire unit will have to bereplaced.
Two pair.
Four.
Fold.
I think so.
I am not easy to get along with.
Or perhaps it is more a matter of seeing something in your double.
Initiating data transfer.
WORF : Commander Riker to the Bridge.
We are picking up a distress call on long range sensors. It is Romulan,sir.
They claim they have suffered a complete engine failure. Power levels aredropping. Life support is failing. It could be a trick.
Approximately thirteen hours.
Aye, sir.
We are nearing the Ohniaka system, sir.
Sensors detect one ship orbiting the third planet. Its configuration doesnot match anything in our records.
No response, sir.
These wounds were caused by a forced plasma beam, similar to a Ferengihand phaser.
Two hundred and seventy four.
Aye, sir.
None taken.
And that Borg also showed concern for a fallen comrade. He even calledhim by name.
Aye, sir.
At warp nine, fifteen minutes, thirty seconds.
Captain, incoming message from the New Berlin Colony. They have cancelledtheir distress call. Evidently a Ferengi trading ship entered their system andsomeone panicked.
Aye, sir.
I have located the Borg ship. It is heading away from the colony.
Within visual range.
We are closing, sir. Within phaser range in thirty seconds.
Within phaser range in ten seconds.
Shields failing.
Inertial dampers failing.
Captain, the Borg ship is directly ahead. It is coming about.
Shields down to sixteen percent.
Aye, sir. Security reports no other intruders aboard. Captain, the Borgship is gone. Sensor logs indicate they entered the distortion field thirtyseconds ago.
Captain, a shuttlecraft has left bay two.
There was no authorisation.
Aye, sir. The tractor beam has been disabled. Command override is notfunctioning.
It is the Borg prisoner, and Commander Data.
The command overrides used to disable the tractor were Commander Data's.
Shields up. Weapons ready.
Sensors show no unusual subspace activity.
Captain, there is an energy fluctuation directly ahead of us. It is thesubspace distortion.
Power levels are down to sixty seven percent.
No, sir. There is no indication of the shuttle within range of oursensors.
They were heading two four seven, mark zero five nine.
The EM interference is limiting the tricorder range. It is useless beyondone hundred metres.
Still no sign of the structure.
I am detecting a faint energy reading.
The decay rate indicates it could be human.
Commander.
So you blame us for what has happened to the Borg?
I cannot accept that. Lore is only one. The Borg could have stopped him.
Even if that voice insists on controlling you.
Show us. If we can determine the geography of the compound, we can form arescue plan.
We can use the environmental control ducts to get into the compound. Theyshould lead us to the detention area.
Enter. Enter.
I am having problems.
Klingons do not procrastinate. It is a tactical delay.
I do not enjoy these diplomatic situations.
I do not see why it is necessary to wear these ridiculous uniforms.
They look like dresses.
Yes. Yes Ambassador, it would be my pleasure to
This way.
I am sorry you do not care for our
Doctor, it is all right. I am happy to bring more food.
Fine.
Ambassador Byleth is demanding, temperamental and rude.
The Engineering sections encompass twelve decks of the secondary hull.
Excuse me?
I am not certain of the exact rate.
This way.
I am going to kill him! With my bare hands, I will take him by the throatand I will rip out his oesophagus
I have failed in my mission, Commander. I am clearly a bad diplomat. Forthe sake of the ship and the Federation, I request reassignment.
Commander, these Iyaarans are arrogant, irritating. They cannot bereasoned with!
You see? You see? They are insane!
Bah.
 I'm in. And I raise twenty.
Excuse me, Ambassador. Those are my chips.
I saw you take two chips from my pile.
Yes.
I am losing because you've been cheating all along!
You are an insulting, pompous fool, and if you were not an Ambassador, Iwould disembowel you right here!
What?
 It was excruciating.
Captain, I am receiving a transmission from Starfleet Command. Admiral
Captain, the Raman is descending toward the planet.
I think the one over there knows something.
He would not admit to having seen the Captain, but he said that anyonewho visited the ruins of Nafir would probably come here eventually. I suspecthe knows more.
Commander, I told
I explained to him that we are looking for a man who impregnated yoursister.
And how much more latinum will it take to offset this risk?
Who were these aliens?
A weapon discharge?
Commander, I am receiving a transmission from Admiral Chekote at Starbasetwo twenty seven.
Aye, sir.
Which could indicate a base or a ship.
Commander! I found something.
Sir, the mercenaries have beamed away. They must have a base or a shipnearby. Can the sensors locate anything?
Sir, they have taken Commander Riker. We must do something. We cannotjust sit here.
The search teams have reported in. They found several archaeologicalsites. Each one has been looted.
The Romulans?
The leader of the group that attacked us was Romulan. Perhaps they arecontrolling the mercenaries.
Direct hit on their aft deflectors. They are undamaged.
Open.
Commander, we are receiving some kind of signal from the mercenary ship.
Sir, we would be totally defenceless.
Sir, as soon as they see
Aye, sir.
Sir, we would be totally defenceless.
Direct hit to the port nacelle. Only minimal damage. Hit to the starboardnacelle. Still, no appreciable damage.
Aye, sir.
Sir, we cannot be able to track them with our sensors if they go to warp.
Two starships have been sent to intercept the mercenaries at Yadalla
So, we are just going to remain here?
If we had not let them to escape, this would not be necessary.
Their maximum speed is warp eight point seven. It will take them at leastfourteen hours to reach that position.
Finally. Set course for the Hyralan Sector and engage at warp nine.
Of course.
May I ask in what way?
With all due respect, sir, I have always felt free to voice my opinionseven when they differ from those of Captain Picard or Commander Riker.
But is it not my duty to offer you alternatives?
No, sir.
I would prefer to remain at my current post.
Aye, sir.
Sir, it is I who has jeopardised our friendship, not you. If you willoverlook this incident, I would like to continue to consider you my friend.
Thank you, sir.
A Toron class shuttlecraft. One person.
Sir, may I recommend that we bring the shuttle aboard with our tractorbeam, search it, and interrogate Koral.
Yes, sir. However, the Treaty does give us the right to conduct healthand safety inspections of any ship in our space.
Yes, sir.
Aye, sir.
He must be hiding something. We should download his computer memory andanalyse it.
We could claim that the computer was generating abnormal radiationsignatures.
What is going on?
I do not know what you're talking about.
Security will not allow you to get that far.
WORF : Worf to Commander Riker. Minister Satok of Vulcan Security isstanding by on a secure channel.
Mmm. Delicious.
It is cellular peptide cake with mint frosting. Would you like a bite?
You must have overslept.
Captain, incoming message from Admiral Nakamura.
Aye, sir.
Ever since you gave Alexander that music programme, he's been playing itall night, every night.
It is screeching, pounding, dissonance. It is not music.
Commander. I will have to confiscate your sidearm.
Yes.
Your animal?
Of course. Spot, come here.
I understand.
I will feed him.
I scanned the vicinity with an IP scanner. There is no sign of anysimilar creatures, or any unusual interphasic activity.
With mint frosting.
I do not care for telepaths. They make me uneasy.
Captain. Doctor. I have the coordinates of Ambassador Mauric's chambers.
Enterprise to Kes Security Relay Station One. We're ready to commencetransport.
Confirmed.
This is the Enterprise. We have completed the transport sequence. Youshould have them.
Commander. The Transporter sensor log shows an unusual concentration ofantigraviton particles in the emitter coil.
Why does the Prytt want Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher?
Aye, sir.
We can determine their communications frequencies and establish a link.
Is there a problem, Ambassador?
I can assure you there is no need.
As Security Chief of the Enterprise, I would be glad to assist you in anyway possible.
Sir, we are being hailed. It is the Prytt Security Council.
Their weapon systems pose no threat to the Enterprise.
Aye, sir.
Where are they now?
It is possible they have been recaptured.
Aye, sir.
Could we send out reconnaissance probes to supplement the sensors?
We are within visual range, sir.
It is a Ferengi transport ship, D'Kora class.
There is no response on any channel, sir.
Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Ferengi ship. They arelocking weapons.
Phasers locked.
We sustained minimal damage to decks five and seven, sir.
Warp engines are offline. Shields are down. All subspace systems areinoperative.
No, sir.
WORF : It's on its way.
Captain, the Hekaran ship is moving off. There is one person on board. Itis Serova.
Damage control teams are standing by on all decks.
One minute twenty two seconds.
Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Fleming. They may beattempting to initiate their warp drive.
No, sir. Subspace interference is too high.
Fifty three seconds.
Captain, they have initiated their warp drive.
Damage on decks six and fourteen. Our structural integrity field isholding.
We are within transporter range of the Fleming, sir. Commencingevacuation procedures.
The last of the crew has been beamed aboard, sir.
Aye, sir.
Structural integrity fields are failing on decks ten through sixteen.
A structural breach is imminent.
The Klingons will observe these restrictions, but the Romulans will not.
Phasers locked on target.
Terminating the beam.
Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from the Bat'lethcompetition on Forcas Three. The conditions were difficult. Several contenderswere maimed. But I was triumphant. I won Champion Standing. I am lookingforward to resuming my duties aboard the Enterprise. However, I am anticipatinga troubling situation.
Hmm? Yes, sir.
Today is my birthday.
Because it is my birthday I assumed that you or one of the others wouldtry to mount an unexpected social gathering.
I am sorry, Commander.
Aye sir.
That was not a Klingon song.
Thank you.
Ah. A painting.
The Battle of HarOS?
What are you doing?
Yes, Yes, I think Data's painting is making me dizzy.
I thought the cake was chocolate.
It is a cast of Alexander's forehead. The ridges of a warrior.
Thank you for watching him while I was away.
Captain, I was told you could not attend.
I am old enough.
It is uninhabited. But there could be a ship or a subspace relay stationreceiving the data.
Excuse me, Counsellor. Do you have a moment?
I have been meaning to speak with you about Alexander.
It has never been easy for me having Alexander on board. I have alwaystried to be a good father, to give him guidance, but he seems to have his ownmind about some things.
I could not have come this far without your help. Alexander looks up toyou. At times, I have felt that you are like a mother to him.
One time when I thought I was going to die, I asked you to watch over
You would become his surrogate mother. In case anything ever happened tome, you would be responsible for him.
The closest analogy is step-sister.
I had not considered that. It is a risk I am willing to take.
I am on my way.
Someone is using the Array for covert surveillance of the Federation.
That's a Cardassian ship. Galor Class.
Aye sir.
I feel dizzy.
Yes. Yes, perhaps I will.
No. However, I did experience some dizziness earlier today at my birthdaycelebration.
Doctor, perhaps you are thinking of another patient. I have noconcussion.
No.
I won that tournament. And I can prove it to you.
It says ninth place. This is not the same trophy. Someone is playing atrick on me.
The log. I recorded a personal log on my way back to the Enterprise.
WORF : Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from the
I do not understand.
Thank you, Doctor.
Sir?
I do not remember you asking me to. Captain, there is a Cardassian shipapproaching. Galor Class.
On screen.
Captain, that ship was responsible for reprogramming the Array.
It is the same class and energy configuration as the ship we saw in theimaging logs.
They are using the Array as a surveillance device. You saw the logsyourself.
Commander Data, show them the logs you downloaded from the Array.
Yes.
Doctor Crusher says I am experiencing further memory loss, but myinstincts tell me it is more than that. I remember those imaging logs. I couldtell you every detail, every word.
Enter.
That is not right. I was certain that
Counsellor, the painting that Commander Data gave me. It has moved.
No.
The painting has changed. Don't you see it?
Your hair and your clothing, they have changed as well.
This panel configuration has been altered. I do not know how
I believe I experienced another memory loss.
I do not feel well. Request to be temporarily relieved of duty, sir.
Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Play log entry forstardate 47391.2.
Computer, display any log entries regarding the Bat'leth tournament on
WORF : Personal log, stardate 47391.2. There has been a malfunctionin the ship's main deflector. It will require two more days of repairs. As aresult, I will not be able to compete in the Bat'leth tournament on Forcas
Why shouldn't I?
I am not sure.
I would rather not, Counsellor.
Is there something I can do for you?
I do not believe this is appropriate behaviour!
Wife?
I do not know. Things are changing.
I do not remember us, you and I, being mates. It is as if events,circumstances, continue to change from moment to moment, but I am the only onewho seems to be aware of it.
I do remember the last three years, but they were different. We did nothave this relationship. We were friends. And the Enterprise did not have abattle with the Cardassians. And no one believes me.
Commander, how long have I been married to Counsellor Troi?
And when did this relationship begin?
And then we mated?
No, that is all right.
I was in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me I had a concussion but I do notremember that happening.
Before. Yes. Yes, I was in Engineering. I felt a wave of dizziness andwhen I looked up, you and Commander La Forge were on the opposite side of theroom. Captain Picard was gone. I thought I had blacked out for a moment and hadnot observed your movements. And at my birthday party, the cake was chocolateand then it was yellow. And Commander Riker told me Captain Picard was notgoing to attend, and then suddenly he was there.
Everyone was at my birthday party. Then I was with Counsellor Troi, then
Doctor Crusher was not here. Doctor Ogawa was.
My uniform has changed. What is my rank and position?
Are we still married?
What does that mean?
Yes, sir.
I understand that, but I also clearly remember attending the tournamentand returning to the ship in a shuttlecraft.
Yes.
If I may inquire, sir, how long have you been Captain of the Enterprise?
I do remember. I just remember differently.
So I was here.
And somehow I have been shifting from one reality to another.
How can we find my original quantum state and return me to it?
Deanna, I have always considered you a close friend. And although I havenever seriously considered a romantic relationship, I would not be opposed tothe possibility.
Children?
When the last shift occurred in Sickbay, we did not have any children.
What about Alexander?
He was my son in another reality.
Sir, the Bajorans?
Shields!
Assuming it works, will I find myself near my own ship?
I understand.
Setting course for the fissure.
Charging primary systems. Initiating inverse warp field.
Worf to Enterprise.
Captain, is everything all right?
No, I do not believe so, but I will explain when I arrive.
It was fine, sir. I won Champion Standing.
No. No, I believe the inverse warp field resealed it.
I know what you are planning, sir. I will not be surprised.
Of course you don't.
So you do not live here?
It is a long story.
Thank you.
Deanna. You do not have to leave.
I have not had dinner. Would you care to join me?
Champagne.
WORF : Worf to Captain. Incoming transmission from Admiral Blackwell. It iscoded Priority One.
Sir, Romulan warbird decloaking directly ahead.
They are powering weapons.
Sir, they are hailing us.
Sir, they are moving off, resuming their tachyon scans of the system.
Aye, sir.
And the Romulans have a two day head start.
The Romulan warship is still searching grid two seven zero.
Sir, the Romulan warbird has altered course once again. They are headingtoward our position.
WORF : Worf to Captain Picard. We are approaching asteroid gamma six zeroone, sir.
They are out of sensor range on the far side of the system.
Aye, sir.
Captain, we are encountering shifts in the magnetic field density.
Captain, I am reading a large resonance signature directly ahead.
There is a hull breach in that section.
Sir, there is an incoming message. It is from the warbird.
Aye, sir.
Captain, I believe we could use the phasers to cut our way out.
Aye, sir. We will reach the rock face in five seconds.
We have passed through two kilometres of the asteroid. Now within onekilometre of the surface.
We have cleared the asteroid, Captain. The warbird is off the port bow.
Aye, sir.
Admiral, if you will come with me.
There is still no response to our hails, sir. I am attempting to scan theobservation post.
Sensor interference is significant, but the post appears to be intact.
Captain, I am detecting faint power emissions from a system of cavernsnear the post. It could be a deflector shield.
Captain, request permission to lead an away team.
Aye, sir.
Yes.
We are brothers.
Nikolai is older than I. We are not alike. We had many disagreements whenwe were growing up.
Nikolai has a mind of his own. He attended Starfleet Academy, but he wasunable to follow the rules. He left after one year. But he has many finequalities. He is brilliant, persuasive. A natural leader.
My name is Worf. I am a traveller.
Nikolai?
Please.
Please, I must speak to my brother.
Nikolai, what have you done?
What did you tell them?
At least you had that much sense.
Nikolai, there is nothing we can do for these people. You have onlypostponed their deaths.
And I am certain he will want to speak with you.
Yes, that is correct.
I'm sorry, Nikolai. I wish there were another way. I am quite familiarwith your communications systems. If you like, I will help you set up yourcomm. link.
The power drain has registered on my security grid as well, sir. Itappears to be coming from deck ten.
Concentrate your scans on the EPS transfer links.
Computer, open holodeck five.
Override. Authorisation, Worf theta six one nine.
What are you doing here?
Bridge.
Trust you? You never had any intention of obeying the Captain.
Your duty was to respect the Captain's orders and to uphold the Prime
You have disgraced yourself and you have disgraced me. I want nothingmore to do with you.
Sir, perhaps someone else would be a better choice. Counsellor Troi isfamiliar with
Aye, sir.
I know a way through the caves. We will travel safely until we return tothe surface.
As we said, it is far from here. It will not be like the home you knew.
Do not worry. It is an omen.
This is the sign of La Forge. It is a message to travellers. It is saidwhen these lines appear and disappear
WORF : In a pool of water, the road ahead will be filled with good fortune.
We are not a team. I am here because Captain Picard ordered me here.
Only because you forced us into it.
You have not changed. You still expect people to solve the problems youcreate.
What is this?
Not in this manner.
We tell each other stories, make up songs.
We must leave. Gather your belongings.
We must stay together. We will have to leave it behind.
Go, and return quickly.
Of course.
She is a fine girl.
You will reach your new home. I promise.
I will carry your pack. Go and join the others.
Vorin has left the holodeck.
I do not know, but Doctor Crusher cannot erase his memory.
They have explained the situation to him. He must make his own decisions.
That is right. He is not a prisoner.
Then you should have considered that before you beamed them on board. Butyou never think about the consequences of your acts.
Wherever you go, you create chaos. How many times did our parents lieawake at night, wondering what kind of trouble you were in?
I was not perfect, but I was not wild and disobedient.
I would rather be accused of that than making our mother weep. But I seeit is clear you have no intention of changing. I see no reason to discuss itfurther.
Commander, the holodeck malfunctions
WORF : Are increasing.
WORF : How much longer till we reach the new planet?
WORF : Someone is coming.
Yes, of course.
It is an old argument.
No. No, I do not.
Us?
How could you have mated with a Boraalan? What were you thinking?
As usual, you are thinking only of yourself.
You have treated Dobara with dishonour.
That is not possible. I cannot allow you to stay here.
Yes. But everyone must take shelter in the tents.
Commander, it might be helpful if you could produce
WORF : A storm. Wind, lightning and thunder.
Commander, energise.
The storms will not return.
I do not want to fight you, Nikolai.
No.
No. If you had been more like me, these people would not be here now. Yougave them a chance at a new life.
You were never good at drawing. How will you keep a chronicle?
Then perhaps there is hope.
Could I take this with me?
I will have to explain all of this to mother and father.
They may. I will tell them that you are happy.
Captain, I am detecting atmospheric turbulence over the colony and largepockets of electrical activity.
It is growing in intensity, sir.
There has been a malfunction in the ship's environmental control.
Captain, the temperature in Ten Forward has dropped to below freezing anddeck thirteen has lost gravity.
Ops is a very different challenge from Tactical.
I recommended you.
No, sir. I detect no vessels in the vicinity.
Sir, I am detecting an object five metres in length. It appears to be anescape pod.
Fifty thousand kilometres.
Twenty.
Well, I must say I disagree, sir.
It is your decision, sir, but I am certain if you give Ensign Sito achance to prove herself, she will not disappoint you.
Fold.
I do not believe he is bluffing.
Flush.
Come in.
Dismissed. Ensign Sito.
I also teach an advanced class. I believe you may be ready toparticipate. However, before you can join the group, you must pass the gik'tal.
Yes. It is a very ancient Klingon ritual. It tests your knowledge of theforms of the mok'bara.
No. No practise. That is part of the ritual. The test must beunannounced.
Can you see?
Good. The gik'tal has begun. Defend yourself.
You must anticipate my attack.
Defend yourself.
Are you listening, Ensign?
Defend yourself.
You did not anticipate.
Stop making excuses. Replace the blindfold.
Very good, Ensign. You have passed the challenge.
It takes courage to say the test is unfair.
You speak Klingon.
No, there is not. But perhaps next time you are judged unfairly, it willnot take so many bruises for you protest.
We have distressed the shuttle so that it appears to have been firedupon.
Be certain you understand the risk you are taking. If you are captured
Good luck.
Sir, I recommend we launch a probe to increase the range of our sensorsweeps.
Aye, sir. Probe launched, sir.
What?
I appreciate what you are trying to do, but it is not appropriate. Youwere her friends. I was only her commanding officer.
There is something wrong with one of the antimatter containment units.
Auxiliary control is not online. We are starting to lose containment onantimatter storage unit three.
The control system for the primary containment field is not functioning.
Sir, that crawlway is in a warp-plasma shaft. He would never survive theradiation.
Captain, phasers are set for wide dispersal, ten percent maximum power.
Phasers have terminated.
Aye, sir.
We have been receiving reports from the rest of the ship. Part of decktwelve is now an aqueduct.
Sir, our weapon control systems are inoperative. However, we couldreconfigure a photon torpedo for manual launch.
Less than point seven percent.
Sir, the onboard power systems are not functioning.
Engineering to Bridge. Emergency transport. Two to beam out.
Captain. The entire deck has been cleared of personnel. We may proceed.
There is no one else here.
How will she do that?
The symbol suggests antlers of some kind. Horns. Maybe it is meant torepresent an animal.
But now it appears as though Masaka's sun is chasing it.
I see. Masaka and Korgano switching positions. The sun setting and themoon rising.
But would we be any better off with him?
She will not even listen to us.
I estimate we have less than two hours before there is nothing left ofthe ship. At least, nothing we can recognise.
Two more decks.
I have unlocked the controls.
Commander, you did everything you could. It was not your fault.
Maybe he left a message of some kind, explaining why he did it.
This is a Napean design.
Yes. It is strange to think that someone could have considered ending hislife and yet give no outward sign. Just before he jumped, he seemed almostcalm.
Yes, she is a medical technician in Sickbay.
We should check his personal logs.
No. No, it does not.
I scanned the area. I found no anomalous readings.
Psilosynine?
I shall accompany you, Counsellor.
Counsellor. Have you found anything in Lieutenant Kwan's logs?
No. No, nothing.
In the past, have your empathic experiences always involved the physicalpresence of another person?
What do you mean, sure of?
He would tell you these stories telepathically?
Yes. Yes, I too have sought visions in fire.
There are things we do not understand, yet they exist nonetheless.
If you will excuse me, Counsellor.
Commander.
Lieutenant Corell seems to be enjoying your company.
Are you involved with her?
No. But if I were, I would of course discuss the situation with youbefore proceeding further.
I mean I would never want to come between you and someone you areinvolved with, or had ever been involved with.
No. Is there someone in particular you would rather I not be involvedwith?
No, no, I was merely. Never mind. Excuse me, sir.
Yes, but only for a short time. After ninety seconds the plasma ventingsystem will engage to prevent degradation of the forcefield.
May I ask what you're looking for?
Counsellor, are you all right?
I apologise for being late. The viral medicines we are transporting to
Perhaps if you should try to narrow the search parameters.
Lieutenant Walter Pierce.
You were Lieutenant Kwan's supervisor at Utopia Planitia?
So you do not remember?
We believe the Counsellor may have been seeing an event that occurredeight years ago.
But you implied that? We have played poker together many times. I'venever known you to bluff.
But Pierce is human.
I thought so as well.
There may be something in them about Lieutenant Kwan as well.
Perhaps we should continue this in the morning.
Yes, and you must be tired.
So I will say goodnight.
We should get an early start tomorrow.
Yes.
Breakfast is ready.
Worf, here.
I will be there shortly.
The cargo bay will be off limits to all but medical personnel.
You're welcome.
Counsellor.
Yes.
I am needed here. I will join you as soon as I can.
Apparently my help was not so good after all.
I think I know what's wrong.
Apparently the remains are those of an Ensign Marla Finn.
Or she was killed and the murderer hid her remains.
Pierce?
I think it is time we had another conversation with Lieutenant Pierce.
Deck ten.
No, of course not.
Deanna, I do not regret being with you. What is wrong?
Perhaps I should talk to Lieutenant Pierce alone.
I will meet you in your quarters later.
What are you doing?
I opened the maintenance door at Counsellor Troi's request, then turnedto see her standing too close to the force field.
The plasma discharge would have obliterated any evidence that it wasmurder.
Counsellor. When I pulled you from the plasma stream, you seemedsurprised I was alive.
May I ask by whom?
The next test will involve the new photon torpedoes. The explosive yieldhas been increased by eleven percent and I have enhanced the targeting systemfor increased accuracy.
Setting targeting coordinates zero zero five mark three one seven, spreadpattern delta nine four. Torpedoes armed and loaded, sir.
One of the torpedoes has veered off course. It appears to be amalfunction in the guidance system.
The torpedo is not responding. Subspace detonator will not engage.
The torpedo is out of range.
I have performed thirteen diagnostics of the weapons array, and I canfind nothing wrong with the guidance system.
Must you to stand so close to me?
Yes, I am fine.
But
Do not approach me unannounced, especially when I'm eating.
I was hungry.
Caviar? For lunch?
It has been a difficult day. The torpedo guidance system failed. It wasmy fault.
It was my fault! I designed that guidance system.
Perhaps you are right. If you will excuse me.
I'll check that.
Computer, reset environmental controls to standard.
You have already raised the temperature three times. It is too hot.
I had to be near you.
Get out of that water now.
We have unwelcome visitors, sir.
WORF : Aye, sir.
Aye, sir.
Mister Crusher. Are you all right?
 Lay out a confinement beam trace along thesoutheastern side of the village. Be discreet. We do not wish to alarm thesepeople.
We are laying out transporter coordinates for a security perimeter. Itmay be necessary to remove these people by force.
I understand, but now is not the time or the place to
Why have you taken these men prisoner?
The terms of the treaty gives them the right to survey this planet.
Worf to Picard. An armed group of Indians has taken two Cardassianprisoners. The situation is extremely volatile.
WORF : Request instructions.
I cannot allow you to hold these men as prisoners.
As time passes, a boy inevitably becomes a man. What is not inevitable,is that a man become a warrior. A warrior must be forged like a sword, temperedby, by,  tempered by experience. The path of the warrior begins
Alexander.
What is the meaning of this?
I asked you to meet me here after school. I have been waiting for you.
You forgot because you allowed yourself to be distracted by foolishness.
There is something very important I want to discuss with you. It concernsyour future. Sit. As time passes, a boy inevitably becomes a man, but what isnot inevitable is that a man become a sword
No. I meant warrior. The path of A warrior begins with the First Rite of
No. No, that is the Second Rite.
You are approaching the Age of Ascension. It is time for you to preparefor the ceremony.
Well, your fighting skills will be tested and your knowledge of theteachings of Kahless. It will be challenging, but I will help you prepare.
If you do not participate in the rite before the age of thirteen years,you will never be able to become a true Klingon warrior.
You may not care about it now, but someday you might.
It is your decision but
Alexander.
 Yes, sir. I will begin the procedureimmediately.
I apologise. In the future, I will make sure my personal affairs do notinterfere with my duties.
I am having problems with Alexander. He has made it clear he does notwish to participate in the First Rite of Ascension.
I have tried to tell him that it is an important part of a young
Yes. But the outpost is on the other side of the Vodrey Nebula. It wouldtake three days by shuttle to get there.
Captain, I cannot ask you
Thank you, sir.
It is the tyrant Molor. He was so strong no one could stand against him.
He is asking if anyone else will have the courage to stand up to Molor.

O'tak tu'ro!
Nok'tar be'got? Hosh'ar te'not?
You fought well.
There is only one man can stand against Molor.
Kahless would rather die than live under Molor's tyranny.
Where have you been?
We?
What for?
That is impossible. The real Molor died centuries ago.
He is trying to take your money.
No. It is late. We should go home.
Alexander, that is enough. Come, it is time to go.
You can see your friends again tomorrow.
If you want to.
Run, Alexander.
I have seen you before. Who are you?
Are you K'mtar.
He is gin'tak to the house of Mogh.
An advisor so trusted that he is become part of a family.
I have full confidence in the officers with whom I serve. One of theattackers dropped this dagger. The design represents the house of Duras.
We can not allow their attack on our house to go unanswered.
Why did you treat Commander Riker so disrespectfully? You were rude.
I have not forgotten. I am merely stating that their ways our differentthan ours.
Yes, of course I have.
Does my brother doubt my ability to raise my son as a Klingon?
No. It has not been easy.
He is learning. He could be better.
Actually, Alexander has not yet committed himself to undergoing the Rite.
I have tried to explain to him how important it is, but he will notlisten to me.
I would be grateful for any help you could offer.
Tomorrow.
Yes, of course.
I am being patched through right now, sir.
Approximately sixteen hours, sir.
What kind of programme?
Yes, he is going to have to shift it to regain his balance.
Why did you not?
K'mtar, that is enough.
Alexander.
A shaft has been cut through the outer crust. There is evidence ofmachinery, but it does not appear to be in use.
What are you doing on this planet?
We are looking for two Klingon women. Sisters.
Where are they now?
And where have they gone?
As am I.
When he first came to live with me, he knew nothing of our ways. He oftenreminds me of things his mother said to him. I try not to disregard her wishes,
Yes, I know. He does not put in the time it takes to learn the skills.
Ogat?
I would like him to learn our ways. No. This is his home.
He is my son. He belongs with me.
Enough! Enough! Enough! The decision is mine.
You would question my fitness to raise my own son?
There should be over ten thousand kilograms.
Transport complete.
Firing.
A Klingon bird of prey.
The Klingon ship is hailing us.
This was dropped by one of the assassins. It bears the crest of yourhouse.
You cannot tarnish a rusted blade.
Gir'nak tovo'sor!
I was not aware you had a son.
I will speak with K'mtar.
What are you saying?
P'tak! Tell me the truth or I will kill you.
I could have seen you on the Homeworld.
If you are Alexander, you will remember your mother's last words beforeshe died.
How have you done this, come to this time?
And you came here in order to end your own life?
But why? What is going to happen that is so terrible?
I do not believe that.
You must not blame yourself.
That is why you wanted to take Alexander away. To turn him into awarrior.
No. Who knows what the future will be now that you have disrupted time? Imay die tomorrow or I may outlive you. But when I die, I would like anhonourable death. And the only way that is possible is for you accept yourselfas you are, and stay true to what you believe. The cause of peace is a justcause. The struggle must continue.
You have already changed things more than you realise.
But I have. You have given me a glimpse into my son's future and I knownow that he has his own destiny. And I believe it will be a great one.
And I you, Alexander.
He had to leave. He was called away.
He asked me to say goodbye for him. He also wanted me to tell you, nomatter what happens, no matter what you decide to do with your life, he willalways care for you a great deal.
It may be a long time.
Alexander. There will be plenty of time for training.
Captain, we are being, You are being hailed, by name.
Captain, I am reading a power surge.
There are no Ferengi vessels within range of our scanners.
Captain, I am reading seismic instability in the area. He is in danger.
Our shields were up. How could he have beamed through them?
Could he have modified the device so he could use it without beingdetected?
And what about yourself?
Captain, I am detecting an object five thousand kilometres off ourstarboard bow. It is another probe.
It must have been cloaked, sir. It came out of nowhere.
Captain, the probe's systems are overloading.
No damage, sir.
Captain, another probe has materialised five hundred kilometres tostarboard. It is sending a transmission.
I know you'd probably have preferred a bottle of
Which programme is running?
I forgot.
If that is so, what does the ship want? Where is it taking us?
Welcome aboard, Counsellor.
Excuse me. Have you finished the puzzle yet?
Do you recognise it?
I would like to help. Tell me. What exactly are you making?
No, I meant the picture. What is it?
Are you succeeding, Commander?
We do not want any trouble. We are simply passengers.
Foundation for what?
It's an earthquake.
Are you all right?
Three tickets for Vertiform City.
What was that?
What is it?
Are you all right?
The Conductor accidently derailed the train.
There is a braking lever in the engine room.
Open.
No response.
Not yet, sir.
The Cardassian's shields are down to thirty percent.
Sir, we are within weapons range.
Yes, sir.
The Maquis are breaking formation. They are withdrawing.
Aye, sir.
We are looking for a Bajoran woman, dark hair.
If we learn that she has been here, this establishment will be closeddown.
Yes.
Captain, the distress call is being repeated.
Captain, the computer has detected a piggyback communication on the lastdistress signal.
It will take a few moments.
The message is difficult to decode. Interference has garbled much of thetransmission, but it seems to be from Lieutenant Ro.
Captain, a quantity of medical supplies was beamed from cargo bay seven.
Aye, sir.
Captain, in order to ensure that the ship Commander Riker and Lieutenant
Aye, sir.
Captain, Lieutenant Ro's ship is not retreating with the others. It isheading toward us.
I am glad you approve. I have always found the Black Sea at night to be amost stimulating experience.
It was very stimulating.
What?
Deanna, perhaps before there is a next time, we should discuss Commander
No, but I do not wish. I mean, it would be unfortunate if he. If you and
Stardate 47988.
WORF : Worf to Captain.
Sir, there is an incoming transmission from Admiral Nakamura. It is apriority one message.
Aye, sir.
With all due respect, sir, it would be helpful if we knew exactly what wewere looking for.
Captain, it could be a Romulan trick to lure our ships into the Neutral
Captain, the security of the Federation could be at stake.
Aye, sir.
Goodnight, sir.
What is a Q?
The Federation Starships Concord and Bozeman are holding position on ourside.
The warbird Terix is responding.
WORF : Captain Picard.
WORF : It is good to see you again.
WORF : Yes. But you must realise I am no longer a member of the
WORF : I must refuse. It is for your own safety. The Neutral
WORF : I am sorry. My first duty is to the Empire. I must adhereto regulations.
WORF : Dor sHo GHA! You have always used your knowledge of
WORF : Very well. You may cross the border. But only if I comewith you. I am familiar with the Neutral Zone.
Captain. I have been monitoring Klingon communication channels. Severalwarships have been dispatched to this sector to search for a renegade
Two Klingon attack cruisers decloaking to port and starboard.
These weapons are no match for their shields.
Tos Vah'cha Worf, do'lo jegh!
Our shields have collapsed. We are defenceless.
The Enterprise is drawing their fire.
But I thought you had more sense than to send a defenceless shipacross the border into hostile territory with no escort.
If you had not turned down the Captain when he came to you for help, noneof this would have happened. Unlike you, I still have a sense of honour andloyalty.
Boosting field integrity to the warp nacelles. We may encounter shearingforces once we enter the anomaly.
We must eject the core!
Stardate 47988.
Agreed.
