Farpoint Station. Even the name sounds mysterious.
Captain, I'm sensing a powerful mind.
Or an incredibly powerful forcefield. But if we collide with either itcould be very
He's frozen.
Its mind is much too powerful. Recommend we avoid contact.
The board shows green, Captain. All go.
It it felt like something beyond what we'd consider a life form.
Very, very advanced, sir, or certainly very, very different.
All decks acknowledging, sir.
That will bring them here in just minutes, sir.
Aye, sir. All language forms and frequencies.
Careful, sir. This is not an illusion or a dream.
I don't understand either, but this is real.
You barbarian! This woman
Do you remember what I taught you, Imzadi? Can you still sense mythoughts?
A pleasure, Commander.
We do, sir. We do.
I, too, would never say goodbye, Imzadi.
I can sense only strong emotions, Groppler. I am only half Betazoid. Myfather was a Starfleet officer.
Do you want it described here, sir?
Pain. Pain. Loneliness. Terrible loneliness. Despair. I'm not sensing the
Tell me the location of Commander Data.
Our sensors do show some passages, sir. Perhaps you and I?
You and I will start with topside.
Sir, I've avoided opening my mind. Whatever I felt in the Groppler'soffice became very uncomfortable.
Pain. Such pain! Pain!
Unhappiness. Terrible despair.
I don't know. No life form anything like us.
No, I feel close to an answer of some kind.
Yes, that's exactly the feeling I've been reading. As if someone doesn'twant us to be in touch with our ship.
Those stairs are where we entered down here, sir.
Don't. If you should be hurt
Yes sir, I'm sorry, sir. Enterprise, three to beam up.
But I doubt protecting the Bandi would violate the Prime Directive. True,they are not actual allies, but
First officer to Enterprise. We'velost Zorn. Something like a transporter beam seems to have snatched him away.
Captain, suddenly I'm sensing something else. Satisfaction. Enormoussatisfaction.
No, that was on the planet. This is much closer.
No. This is much more powerful. Full of anger! Hate!
No. It's directed down toward the old Bandi city.
Groppler Zorn, sir. A great fear just ahead.
There's a different feeling here than in the tunnel. Very different.
Has the alien communicated?
That's it, sir. It's just one alien that I'm sensing here.
Not true. He does know.
The agreement isn't valid, sir. It wasn't Q that saved us.
Yes sir. It is not merely a vessel, sir. Somehow it is alive.
Then it was a pair of creatures I was sensing. One down there in griefand pain, the other up here, filled with anger.
Sir! Wonderful! A feeling of great joy. And gratitude. Great joy andgratitude, from both of them.
Any or all, Captain.
Since his records show no previous mention of that, the fact that it'shappened now could be important. But all I sense from him is confusion. If Ididn't know better, I'd say he was intoxicated.
Tasha? What are you doing?
Of course. Anything I can do
It's not for you. Tasha, I feel you're very uncertain. Yhat you'refighting something.  What is it?
Tasha? Tasha, wait.
Troi to Captain Picard.
Sir, I think Tasha's been infected too.
She just left my quarters,
Yes, sir. It's more like an intoxication. Nut whatever it is, she's gotit.
Bill. RIKER: Deanna, what?
So many minds on this ship, all free. Released,
I can feel them all. What they want, what they feel. It's a side ofhumans I've never felt before.
Wouldn't you rather be alone with me? With me in your mind?
A highly structured society. and they're exceedingly proud.
If I may suggest, sir, no apology. In their view, it would weaken us.
Much the same has happened in human history too.
I believe not, sir. They seem mainly curious. In the case of Lutan,however, I did feel other needs.
Some sexual attraction from all the males. Lieutenant Yar is physicallyvery attractive. But with Lutan I felt something else. Something more likeavarice or ambition.
Captain, we have more information from the briefing studies on Ligon.
And it fits Lutan's personality profile as well. He has an abnormallyhigh need for achievement. Self image to him is a function of what he thinkshe's achieved. Those who set their standards too high can kill to meet them.
As a Starfleet Security Officer, she may have represented his riskiestprize.
Sir. According to the Ligon Code of Honour, Lutan has done what he setout to do, achieve recognition for being daring and bold.
Commander.
So is this request, sir. We believe it would be preferable if the Captainled this away party.
And the custom requires that Lutan should die rather than violate that.
One can see the importance of honour here.
But it was a thrill. Lutan is such, such a basic male image and havinghim say he wants you
Only so you'd think about it, completely and clearly.
How simple all this would be without the Prime Directive.
The plague?
But the vaccine is important in this case, sir.
Betazoid blood is also practical, Captain. The odds are very good she'ddefeat Lutan's wife easily and you would win all the bargaining points youneed.
You have pointed out yourself we are all at risk every day of everymission.
You're the Captain, sir. You're entitled.
Captain, I'm your Counsellor. You brought me with you to Ligon to be ofhelp.
With the vaccine? None.
What's going on?
No. No.
They're bonding gifts. What you would call wedding presents.
I am.
I was certain it would never happen, Captain. The years I'd spend on thismission, the distance it has taken me away from home. As you must have heard,genetic bonding is a Betazoid tradition. Steven Miller was my father's closestfriend.
No, sir.
Bill, more than anything else in the world, anything, you want to be astarship captain. True?
I can feel that. I know you care, within those limits. Did you hear what
Come dance at my wedding.
I'm Deanna.
It's wonderful. Thank you. When is my mother arriving?
Why?
Yes, he does. But I'm not what he expected.
Neither do I, but I'm definitely a surprise of some sort to him. I shouldwarn you, sir. My mother is a little eccentric.
Hello, Mother
Hello Mother.
Mother!
Mother, it's quite inappropriate to ask the captain to
Mother, I'm not going another step like this. A starship has its customs,just as we do. If you're my mother's valet, then please valet!
Your last valet tried so hard to rid me of it. Whatever happened to
Mother.
Mother, that's enough!
Only to avoid confusion, mother. Humans constantly think one thingand say another.
On that subject Mother, there is such a thing as too much honesty withhumans.
Mother, I'm having some trouble believing in those vows as once I did.
But I'll honour them, of course. I'm a Betazoid.
I wanted to apologise for my mother's behaviour.
Yes, but she never lets up.
I never heard it described better. But it is a Betazoid trait. I'll tryto be only half as annoying.
Doctor?
Sometimes. This must be what Mother felt about you. I believe we couldread each other eventually.
Absolutely. I only ever felt this, well, with someone who's on this ship.
No. What he wants most is to captain a starship.
Well, I'm a practicing psychologist. Maybe we can work in concert. We aregoing to be together a long time.
I really thought you'd tell me you were an artist. I just felt your mindvery much on these. They are your work, aren't they?
This is why you were surprised when you first saw me. This woman. Youthought that I would be this woman.
I'm sorry I'm not what you hoped for.
You've no idea who she is?
Mother!
Stop this petty bickering, all of you! Especially you, Mother!
May I join you?
I'm no longer Imzadi to you?
And the human heart is too small to permit that feeling now.
I understand. I should have realised. Humans, young human malesparticularly, have difficulty separating platonic love and physical love.
Actually, Bill was concerned that you might be upset that I care deeplyfor him, too.
All I did was lose my temper.
And we'll take our clothes half off?
Captain Picard will be very relieved. How did you manage it?
Yes, I want to.
It's the woman in Wyatt's drawings.
He can never come back, Mrs. Miller.
Wyatt, I'm happy for you, and for Ariana too.
Mother.
Goodbye.
What?
He has other obligations, Mother.
That was meant as a joke, Captain.
Agreed. Also, he's arrogant, overbearing, self-important, and very sureof himself and his ability.
He's the puzzle. With most life forms I can usually feel something. I maynot be able to understand or interpret it, but I feel something, if only apresence. With him, nothing. Empty space. It's as though he isn't even here.
He's convinced he's right. I have no doubt of that.
When you begin the attempt, there will be stress, and it's only naturalthe crew's concentration will shift.
I feel such an abundance of well being on the ship. It feels like, quitewonderful.
I'm sensing nothing from them Captain. Which could mean they can shieldtheir thoughts and emotions from others.
Sir, they may know as little about us as we do about them.
Captain, if I may recommend? With our attention on the Ferengi vessel, wehave ignored the planet.
The facts are the Ferengis did fire at us, but we were chasing them.
Let's talk to them.
But did we tell them anything they wanted to hear?
I sensed the same thing, Captain. He's hiding something.
It's getting much, much colder, sir. How far down is it likely to go?
He's reading normal now. How did you manage that?
Are you all right?
Don't you remember? You were in the sensor maintenance room.
That's a story the Doctor will tell you.
I want to try hypnosis on both of you. It may restore your memory as towhat happened.
Beverly, can you hear me?
I want you to go back in your mind to the moment when you first recallthis sensation of memory loss. Picture it exactly as it occurred.
How do you feel at this moment, as you lean over him to take thespecimen?
 That's almost exactly what you said. As though there wassomething else inside you.
Which confirms the feeling of duality that I sensed earlier in both ofthem.
Because, sir, I assumed at first it was the kind of duality we Betazedsfeel in all of you. Even you, sir. When you approach a decision and askyourself which way to go, who are you talking to?
Yes, sir. I believe something invaded them.
Perhaps you'd like to share your reasoning on that, sir?
Of course not, sir.
It's just a feeling that he's, well, that he's closed part of his mind tome. I just feel that the Captain has become, perhaps dangerous.
Ultimately, I believe he will.
Captain, do you exist in combination with this entity?
He's planning to beam himself and the entity into that cloud.
This is blinding me.
Commander, wait! It's the Captain. But only the Captain. He's out therealone!
No, but the combination wasn't possible out there. He's in trouble, sir.
I wish I could.
There's something's here. I feel it.
But confused. This Picard pattern was formed before he went out there.
He's very enthusiastic.
The Doctor has something very important to tell you, Captain.
They certainly are.
Healthy sensuality, sir. I feel mainly friendship, and happiness.
Is there a problem?
It's nothing these people have done. I'm certain of that. Their minds areso open.
Unnecessary, sir. These people are honest, almost to a fault. And theyhave great pride in their ways.
 Wesley.
There's no reason to be.
Can you tell us what it is?
Nothing will harm you, I promise. Just tell us how you recognise it.
Captain!
It's coming toward us.
Yes, do that. But hurry!
It's understandable, sir. Sharing an orbit with God is no smallexperience.
Captain, I sense considerable deception on Bok's part. And danger.
I just felt something too, Captain.
It felt as if it were something from your past.
Hit? I'm sorry, but anything could be important.
I believe so. Like a thought, but rather mechanical in nature.
Memory or nightmare?
Sir? Who's Vigo?
It has troubled you?
I wish I could say.
I'm puzzled too. I keep sensing random thoughts but two sets of them. Asif they were his, but intermixed other thoughts which are also his.
Does this have something to do with Captain Picard?
What kind of transmissions?
Let's get to the Captain.
There have been some, did he say low intensity? Some unusual lowintensity transmissions from the Ferengi vessel.
It could have prepared him for whatever is happening now.
Sir, I now feel anger from our Captain. Fury over whatever it is he isreliving out there.
Nearly fifteen hundred now, sir.
From his body language as well as his words and tone, I'd judge that what
That could be, sir. Karnas has established himself as a powerful man on
Admiral, are you suggesting the terrorists want arms and weapons?
I see. You believe that Karnas would not negotiate on that point, and sothe terrorists demanded an outside negotiator.
That's true. He still cares for you, despite the physical changes he'sundergoing.
Because there are lives at stake, Mrs. Jameson.
Doctor, she has to know.
Sickbay to Bridge.
Doctor Crusher
Requests your presence in Sickbay immediately, sir.
The double bars indicate an elongated S sound.
Unless?
Exactly.
But you spell knife with a K.
Well, this is an insect mind, sir.
Take a break.
You could be over-preparing. You've been looking forward to the upgradeof the holodeck. You have the time. Captain, you need the diversion.
The program's installed and waiting.
The Captain has to recite the entire greeting without making anymistakes.
The Captain is well aware of the gravity of the situation, Commander.
Captain Picard is familiar with that, Data.
The Jarada.
Will. His mother's missing too.
We can't delay much longer.
It sounds like my own planet.
Thank you, sir.
This is Counsellor Deanna Troi from the USS Enterprise.
The Federation has neglected to visit to your planet for far too long.
We also come in search of possible survivors from one of our freighters.
We do. We have reason to hope that survivors from a damaged Federationfreighter may be marooned on your planet. We are seeking to learn if this isso.
Not at all. Our discovery of the freighter was unexpected. We have a dutyto investigate.
We will take them with us and see that they were reunited with theirfamilies.
There was much fear in that room.
I cannot say. But their fear was not focused. I sensed that all were notconcerned for the same reason. Undoubtedly there are survivors from the Odin onthis planet.
It's called perfume, Data.
We are.
If you'll deliver these men to us, we'll have them off your planetimmediately.
Using the technology of the Enterprise, we might be able to find thesemen.
This was delivered for you.
You're not going to wear that.
Tasha.
I wish they weren't necessary.
Tasha!
Seven years on an alien planet, and I sense no anticipation, noexcitement at being rescued.
But Mistress Beata
We wish you well, Mister Ramsey.
Mister Ramsey and the other survivors refuse to leave.
It doesn't feel right to leave while Beata is determined to execute thosepeople.
Something's wrong.
Mistress Beata is willing to give you a second chance. We're prepared totake your entire group with us.
What of them?
They're still here!
It's good to be back.
We improvised, sir.
Visionaries who don't see this planet as it is, but as it will be.
We alarm him for some reason.
His fear is escalating.
I sense deliberate concealment, sir.
I don't know, but it's intense.
He is concealing something. It's more than just being too busy. Yourannouncement about coming down has sent him almost to a point of panic.
Aye, sir.
The other two are secretive, but she is as open as she appears.
What you're doing here is miraculous.
Commander!
Malencon. He's in trouble!
It was useful. I felt two levels. He did know about the life form, butthe idea of murder seemed to shock him. Whether it was the whole idea, or justbeing accused of it, I can't tell.
Terraformers are often obsessive. It frequently goes with the careerprofile.
She's possessed of highly abstracted reality. Lovely visions, littledata. You might do better than I.
But you tried to keep that knowledge from us.
We see and hear you now. We didn't know you were there. You are beautifulto us. All life is beautiful.
Our apologies.
Scanners may show nothing, sir, but I'm sensing something very strong.
Very close.
They want something from us, something we value greatly. So much, thatthey're afraid we won't part with it.
Why?
That might be acceptable to some other races, but humans are unusuallyattached to their offspring.
They'll need to speak to you as well, Captain.
We can't be sure. We do know the Aldeans can't have children of theirown.
What was that?
And we know they'll make good parents.
Nothing.
He was being controlled by a mind altering machine, Commander. Withouthis knowledge.
How would he react under stress?
In a difficult situation a man like that would act aggressively.
What happened to all the people?
You, sir?
Captain, I take great exception to your decision to beam down.
Lieutenant, I need to speak to you.
I know, but as Counsellor I have a duty to evaluate the emotional fitnessof the crew.
Not at all. You're under tremendous pressure, more than you've everexperienced.
On the contrary. You should be proud of the way you're handling command.
Did you hear the uneasiness in his voice?
Yes, but he isn't handling the stress as well as you are. Both he and
Yes, but they lack battle experience. They're worried about makingmistakes, and they need some encouragement.
Just remember it's you they draw strength from. They look to you forguidance and for leadership. Help them. Show confidence in them.
This is Counsellor Troi. I'll relay, sir. The pilot is busy. We'velost most of our impulse power.
You're wrong.
Yes. I know.
I felt her die.
Your answer would be meaningless. That act had no reason.
No. You thought it would amuse you, but it didn't. You felt nosatisfaction.
You wanted her to suffer. You have a great need.
Liar. End this. Let us go.
They won't give you what you want.
To break their spirit.
Never.
Let me talk with them.
Why? Does the thought of my having contact with them make you uneasy?
Yes. Yes, they are worried.
We are members of a community. We all care for one another.
You were really surprised they came back.
Why? Because the others did not?
You can't hide the emptiness from me. The others. The ones who hurt you.
Only what you tell me.
Not now. But soon.
Beverly?
I can hear you.
Yes.
I know.
And the emptiness remains. You sound so alone.
Abandoned. Who deserted you?
You were together?
You.
They discarded you and left.
You have my pity.
Imzadi! No! Please, stop hurting him!
I can.
You only ask to torment me.
How should I answer? What can I offer except myself?
Yes. Without hesitation.
No, not just for him. I would do the same for any of the others. Armus,you have me. Let them go.
Yes, but Ben is not.
Were you able to help Tasha?
The creature is filled with rage. Undirected, unfocused rage. When heconfronts it, his guard goes down because he's feeling it instead ofsuppressing it. Acknowledging his needs makes him vulnerable.
He was left here. Abandoned.
Captain, the level of tension on the ship is mounting.
Sir, I find it strange that none of our visitors feels much remorse aboutthe two freighter passengers who perished. Yet that barrel of cargo is a sourceof great anxiety to them.
I will continue this in the guest quarters. Commander,
Captain? Excuse me.
I think you would prefer to discuss this in private.
When Professor Manheim's name was mentioned, you reacted with intenseemotion.
I don't want to interfere with your personal life, but unresolved strongemotion can affect judgement.
As Ship's Counsellor, I offer my assistance.
Confronting deep personal issues is not easy for you. You tend tosuppress them. There are a few hours until we arrive. Perhaps you should usethis time to analyse your feelings and put them into perspective.
I wanted to see how he was doing.
I thought I was the empath.
Are you all right?
That's not what I meant.
Captain Picard
She's not a ghost. She's here right now.
Computer, this is Counsellor Troi. Request access.
No, continue the programme.
The Captain is waiting for you inside.
It's across the square from the Zanza Men's Dance Palace.
I know I won't. I've been really looking forward to a nice swim.
Data, it's just not the same. Have you ever been for a real moonlightswim?
How about you, Mister Worf?
Code Forty Seven. Captain's eyes only.
But you're putting your career at risk for him.
They illicitly used the emergency channel to draw you here. Then theyasked you to keep secrets from your superiors. Effectively, to disobey
Don't you think you should tell the rest of the crew?
Hard to say. Someone is hiding something, but I can't tell who or what.
There is limited information, but I will prepare something.
As you know, there is very little available on the Romulans.
They seem to be creatures of extremes. One moment violent beyonddescription, the next tender. They are related to the Vulcans, but as each racedeveloped, their differences grew wider. They are intensely curious. Theirbelief in their own superiority is beyond arrogance. For some reason they haveexhibited a fascination with humans and it is that fascination, more thananything else, that has kept the peace. One other thing. They will not initiateanything. They will wait for you to commit yourself.
Yes, sir.
Hello. My name is Deanna.
I'm the ship's Counsellor and I thought you might want to talk.
I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with that term.
You're feeling profoundly sad.
He must have thought you would have wanted it.
Let's see if we can find out. Computer, this is Counsellor Troi. Requestpersonal history on. What are their names?
Well, there must be a record somewhere. There is a good chance we canfind it.
Ten generations of your progeny.
No, not at all.
I've found something. I have been able to locate a family living outsideof Indianapolis. The man's name is Thomas Raymond.
Computer, let us see Thomas Raymond.
Actually, it's your great, great, great, great, great grandson.
Well, I have his address. When you get back to Earth, you can go and seehim.
Perhaps. But it's a place to start. After all, he is family.
More so for me.
Last night, while I slept, something which I can only describe as apresence, entered my body.
Captain, do whatever you feel is necessary to protect the ship and thecrew, but know this. I'm going to have this baby.
I should be feeling uncomfortable with all the changes in my body but, Idon't. I feel fine. Better than fine. Wonderful.
Data, will you help me get to Sickbay.
It's time.
Very close together.
Difficult under the circumstances.
Doctor, I think Commander Data will do very nicely.
You don't have to do anything, Data. Just be with me.
It's happening.
Data!
Now! 
I have felt no pain.
No, none at all.
Not according to my mother.
Ian Andrew, after my father.
Were you hear all along?
Fine. Wonderful. Thank you, Doctor, for everything.
Come in.
Ian, say hello to Captain Picard.
Ian? Ian!
It's time to go, sweetheart.
I thought you would. Say thank you to Miss Gladstone for having you, andlet's go get something to eat.
Thank you.
Come in.
We're doing fine. I was just about to get him his supper.
They had a litter today in the nursery.
Is that better, sweetheart? Everything's going to be fine.
Ian, I think the Captain wants to know if you are ready to tell us whyyou came here.
The answer is within him. When his cognitive powers have sufficientlydeveloped, he will be able to articulate it.
Yes. I feel it too, but don't you worry.
What?
You?
What are you saying?
Leave? You are going to die. No, you can't! Sickbay, this is Counsellor
It's Ian. Hurry.
No.
Ian said he's the reason the ship is in danger.
You must save him.
Then Ian was right. He was the cause.
He is a life force entity. When we passed each other in space, he wascurious about us, so he decided the best way to learn was to go through theprocess. To be born, to live as one of us and in that way to understand us. Henever meant any harm.
He said, thank you. I told him we will miss him. And I will.
Well, we know he'll get his sleep.
You're worried.
About Worf or Commander Riker?
I know what you're asking, but I feel nothing from it.
I'm not certain of that now, Captain. I do sense something unusual.
Yes. Perhaps an intelligence so vast it eluded me.
Exactly!
Good. Don't satisfy its curiosity.
I know this much. We are unimportant to it.
No. A laboratory experiment would be the closest comparison.
No.
Our destroying ourselves won't change its mind, Captain. I would feelthat.
I was wrong not to tell you, Captain. And your decision may also bewrong.
We should not let ourselves die, Jean-Luc.
If only half of us live, then I'd rather take my chances on being onethat does.
It is wrong.
Captain, it has gone. I no longer feel its presence.
Captain, I'm sensing something from the holodeck. It's as if a unifyingforce or a single consciousness is trying to bring it all into focus.
I can affect this vessel, and I can inflict bodily harm on you, andon your Doctor.
His emotions suggest that he's mischievous, irreverent and somewhatbrazen. The word that seems to best describe him is rogue.
Yes, Data, but there is no malevolence or ill will.
He believes what he's saying. His anger is genuine.
We are dealing with ancient codes involving procreation. While they may bemeaningless to us, to Debin they represent his honour. He will fight, riskinghimself, his crew, his daughter and her unborn child.
Now we're hearing some truth.
I was sougly as a child they hung a pork chop around my neck  so the dog wouldplay with me.  And then there was the human cannonball who washired and fired in the same night. Audience programme off. Discontinue Comic.
Did Data say why he wants to see us?
How so?
Yes, but you do know better. Androids don't feel such things.
Yes, I'm here, Data. Geordi said you wanted to see us.
It's er, very different.
I'm sorry, I have to go now. Goodbye.
What do you mean?
Now wait a minute. I don't understand
This might sound crazy, but for a moment I thought I was stuck in thatwall.
We're from a ship called the Enterprise. We monitored your distress callbut then you never acknowledged our response.
Chance? What chance?
That's funny, I thought most doctors were people.
I thought you didn't like people.
I'm Deanna Troi. It's an honour to meet you, Doctor Graves.
His feelings towards you are very warm. He's attracted to you in manyways.
I'm still concerned, Captain. I've never seen him act like this.
I hope you're right. I hope that's all it is.
Jealousy. Intense, burning jealousy. A human emotion, and it was comingfrom Data.
Perhaps we're looking in the wrong place.
Well, if Data's physical health is unimpaired, perhaps his mental healthneeds to be addressed.
With your permission, Captain, there is one way to find out.
Now, Data, you remember the psychotronic stability examination. We allhad to take it before graduating from the Academy.
It will just gauge your psychological reactions to the images itprojects. Watch the screen and let your mind go blank. The device will do therest.
I have the results of the tests. I ran them several times to be sure.
There are two disparate personalities within Lieutenant Commander Data.
It must be. The dominant personality is unstable. Brilliant but vain,sensitive yet paranoid. And I believe it is prone to irrationality.
Sir?
It seems to have an especially strong hatred of you, Captain, or to alesser degree, any authority figure. And worst part is, it's growing.
The alien persona is getting stronger and gobbling up what is left of theweaker ego, the Data we know. If something isn't done to stop it immediately,we will lose our Data forever.
He should be in his quarters. You ordered him not to leave.
Yes. Always.
Yes.
He was working on bridging the gap between man and machine.
Have your sensors indicated any problem down there, Lieutenant? 
But you're feeling a certain confusion about this mission.
Yes. I've never known you to have such strong emotions, except whenyou're expecting to do battle.
Captain.
Riva.
Yes.
I am flattered. I too am look forward to learning more about you.
Your method of communication is most elegant and quite beautiful.
This part of you doesn't speak very often.
This way.
Yes, I suppose in a way it is.
You mean some emotion buried in your psyche?
Exactly what are you feeling?
Some of it.
I'd like that.
Will he be with us?
I look forward to that time.
Yes.
I've grown so accustomed to it, I forget it's there.
How do we communicate? I know you can read lips, but I need your words.
Words are here on top. What's under them, their meaning, is what'simportant. Yes, that's true. We both know how to express important words, likedream. Being here with you. Yes, being here with you know is very special tome, too.
They need you on the Bridge, now.
Riva, go slowly. Slowly.
The same. He's withdrawn. He's very frightened. All of his life he's beenin control, and now for the first time he doesn't have any answers. The doctorgave him a complete medical examination.
I don't know what we can do to help him.
It's up to him, and he's stopped cooperating.
Confidence is faith in oneself. It can't easily be given by another.
Don't turn away. You have a chance to make some good come out of thistragedy. This could be the catalyst which binds them together.
The Solari need you.
The Captain is going to take you to Ramatis. But first, he's given mepermission to attempt to settle the conflict down on Solais. Yes. We've come sofar, and paid such a terrible price, I must try. Help me.
I have never attempted anything like this before. When dealing with twofactions so diametrically opposed, so entrenched in their positions, where doyou start?
I want to know anything you can tell me that could help.
What about your Chorus?
So there was a trick.
That's very hard to accomplish.
This isn't going to be easy for me.
But what I do is different.
Why can't you do that? Why can't you turn your disadvantage into anadvantage?
Riva is going to teach them sign language.
While they are learning how to communicate with Riva, they'll be learninghow to communicate with each other.
Time well spent.
You wanted to see me?
You wanted to see me, Captain?
I've never met a more dedicated physician. I would say she has a passionfor her work.
I feel your concern, Captain, but I don't share it. Perhaps because I'vehad the opportunity to spend more time with her and get to know her better.
Nothing, Captain.
Nothing else since?
Doctor Kingsley sincerely believes the children are not a threat, butshe's not telling us the whole truth. I recommend caution.
Captain, there's a definite presence, a distinct personality. Even instasis it's quite strong. The child is unquestionably telepathic.
Why do you say that?
Kate, I don't think he'd be where he is if he couldn't see the human sideof the equation. Perhaps the two of you aren't all that different.
Let's just say you both have well established personalities.
Shouldn't Doctor Pulaski be involved in this?
Well I suggest we beam them both back onto the ship. Commander Data ismost likely immune and surely the biofilter will
Her last ship was the Repulse.
Captain, Kate knew what she was doing.
O'Brien and Riker aresitting down for an evening's entertainment)
I would have thought the inhabitants of Daled Four would send a futureleader to a more hospitable environment.
Yes, but sixteen years.
Captain, I'm concerned our new passengers. Their emotions do not fit whothey are and what they're doing.
Actually no, it's more like they're not what they say they are.
What I sensed before hasn't changed.
Whatever kind of life form Anya is, emotionally she's Salia's mother.
Exactly.
She's extremely anxious.
Our presence in the Neutral Zone is provocative. It could force her torespond.
If we have established that the Romulans were not responsible for thedestruction of the Yamato, would it not be prudent to withdraw?
Personal log. We've been spotted by a Romulan cruiser, but afterplaying hide and seek through several solar systems, I think I've managed toelude them.  The Iconian probe scan. Was it an attempt atcommunication? If only I knew what we were dealing with here. 
In another time and place this could be funny.
Sub-Commander Taris is deeply frustrated, probably because her ship is ascrippled as the Enterprise.
The tension on the ship is very high.
Give everyone something to do, somewhere to focus their attention.
To the planet?
But you might need me if you have to negotiate with Taris again.
Any indication of what destroyed it, Data?
I don't feel he's in any danger. In fact, if I could choose one word toassess his mood, it would be amused.
Captain, the situation down there has changed.
Commander Riker has become tense. Closed in, he's feeling trapped.
It may get better.
I don't believe this dialogue. Did humans really talk like that?
With your permission, sir.
I have never felt anything quite like this before, so it's difficult toput into words. That person is you.
He is as much Jean-Luc Picard as the person I am standing next to. Beyondthat, there is very little I can be sure of. I will have to wait until heregains consciousness before knowing more.
I'm able to feel much more from him now, Captain. His emotions are stilla jumble, but
He desperately wants to leave this ship.
Captain, he doesn't understand you.
Yes, but in a nightmare of disjointed images and half-heard voices. He'sin another dimension, looking at us across a great chasm. And he's feelingremorse at what he has witnessed. He's afraid.
It's no use, Captain. He can't answer you.
Yes, but you're not convinced.
I think he's handling it very well.
Yes, because of what he represents.
Doubt. He's afraid that seeing him here and knowing what happened to the
Doctor, the Captain is quite capable of command decisions.
Which is understandable, and healthy.
I don't think that will be necessary.
Captain, there is a consciousness here. Not thought, more like instinct.
I think it's trying to determine if we are a life force.
It's you, Captain. It was the entire ship, but now it has focused itsattention entirely on you.
Yes. I think it would.
Commander Pulaski's greatest medical skill is her empathy. You must be
We've all heard about you, and I felt certain things.
At your service.
Because you are intelligent, wise and quite correct.
You're also very anxious about something. It's Will, isn't it? You're notas close to him as you'd like to be.
I'd like to help you if I can. If you'll let me.
You don't seem to be the kind of man to give up so easily.
What is it you want from him?
Respect is earned, not bestowed.
Perhaps you want him to be proud of you. You carry great pride in hisaccomplishments.
Yet you covet his success.
True, you're well respected in your field.
And false humility.
Honesty is the trait he admires most. And you should honestly consider whyyou're so competitive with your own son.
Are you sure he'll accept such a dangerous assignment?
How can you be so sure?
I don't like good-byes. How about, until next time?
It's been a pleasure serving with you, Commander.
I'm supposed to know how everyone feels but, I can't read you right now.
My job is to help others sort out their emotions. My own feelings arebeside the point.
Are you feeling sad?
So am I.
You will enjoy this one.
I know what an important day this is for you, the anniversary of your Riteof Ascension.
All your friends on board do.
And certain resourceful young Ensigns.
Just bear with me.
The holodeck.
I think you will approve.
No.
Is Lieutenant Worf all right?
So it was a good ceremony?
Klingon culture is not in your taste?
Have they? Commander Riker and his father are in the gymnasium, about toengage in barbarism of their own.
In spite of human evolution, there are still some traits that are endemicto gender.
Human males are unique. Fathers continue to regard their sons as children,even into adulthood. And sons continue to chafe against what they perceive astheir fathers' expectations of them.
Perhaps that's part of their charm, and why we find them so attractive.
And his father.
No, I'll just watch you and be impressed.
You know, I never particularly thought of you as an animal person.
On the holodeck we've made that legend come true.
So you like horses for the romance?
Now I understand. You don't want the comfort of a pet, you want acompanion.
I had a Betazoid kitten once. My mother and the cat reacted badly to oneanother.
No, I prefer a mode of transportation that doesn't have a mind of itsown.
We become too involved in the thoughts and shifting passions of thebeast. We lose our way and get swept up in emotion.
Leadership grows from self-confidence, which is also part of a Starfleetofficer's education.
You can't guide someone into adulthood. The experiences are unique toeach person. Whether Wes succeeds or fails, he will learn from the experience.
Yes.
What have you done so far?
But they're all much older than you are.
Sometimes.
If there is a cosmic plan, are we not a part of it? Our presence at thisplace at this moment in time could be a part of that fate.
It's all right, no one's going to hurt you.
We'll just go and get a treat, and then
Come on, it'll be all right.
Where's the Captain?
Captain, this is Counsellor Troi.
We're not dealing with an individual mind. They don't have a singleleader. It's the collective minds of all of them.
Yes, A single leader can make mistakes. It's far less likely in thecombined whole.
Commander? Lieutenant La Forge is on an alien ship?
Commander. Those aliens. What they feel is not helplessness. Lieutenant
It's not our help they want.
You think they're weak.
They have what they want. For now.
It's all deception. Nothing the Pakleds have said or done has beensincere.
For the sole purpose of making Lieutenant La Forge their prisoner.
And now they have become militant.
They are unwilling to wait for the timely evolution of their species'intellectual capacity. They want instant knowledge, instant power andgratification.
Would you be suggesting a ruse of some sort?
He's afraid.
Yes. the Captain needs our help.
Captain, these people have been isolated for three hundred years. Theycould be very unsophisticated. The shock of suddenly being transported onto aspaceship could frighten them, to say the least.
I would urge caution.
He's hiding something.
I know the Mariposan culture seems alien, even frightening, but really,we do have much in common. They're human beings fighting for survival. Would wedo any less?
Yes. They have the energy and drive, and the clones possess the emotionalmaturity and the technological knowledge.
Oh, my God.
What's she doing here?
Mother.
Mother, please, don't do this to me.
It's so like my mother to do the unexpected.
Where they belong, Mother, Right under you.
Captain Picard, Mother.
Humans no longer own each other that way, Mother.
I can't believe you, Mother. You sound like you're sizing up a commodity.
No. He worshipped you. But I don't think I'll ever learn to see men theway you do.
Perhaps I should tell you something about my mother's condition at thistime.
It's something that occurs to Betazoid females as they enter mid-life. Wecall it the phase.
Similar. It's only at mid-life that a Betazed female becomes, well, fullysexual, if you know what I mean.
I wonder if I shouldn't warn him?
Doctor !
Yes. An animal is always at its best when hunted.
I hope I'm not interrupting.
Why would you come aboard at a time like this?
Don't be absurd, Mother. You knew what would happen.
What stage is it in?
What stage is it in?
Now I know why you wore that dress.
What are we going to do?
Mother, don't even think it.
Actually, her telepathic prowess is quite advanced. Except for now.
My mother is beginning a physiological phase. It's one that all Betazoidwomen must deal with as they enter mid-life.
Or more.
I didn't want to frighten you. She has opted for the only dignifiedoption open to her.
She has decided to focus all of her sexual energy on one male, who will,of course, eventually become her husband. It seems, Captain, that you are theearly favourite.
You cannot apply human style logic to this, Captain. A Betazoid woman inthe phase would be shocked and deeply resentful, should you spurn any suchadvances. She would take it personally.
I'm afraid so, Mother.
Alternate plan?
Mother, what are you doing here? You can't just stroll on to the Bridgewhenever you feel like it.
You're scheming something, Mother. Don't try to fool me, I cantell.
Mother, not him.
No.
Why did you stop me? Someone needs to set her straight!
Coward.
But you always say you like surprises, Mother.
Why too late?
And you believe you can convince these Klingons that the humans are nowtheir allies?
I will escort you to the guest quarters.
I didn't know it was possible for a human and a Klingon to produce achild.
I know exactly what you mean. My father was human and my mother is a
I never felt trapped. I tried to experience the richness and diversity ofthe two worlds.
Oh, I doubt that.
And your Klingon side?
Everyone has tempers.
And it frightens you.
It gives you strength. It's a part of you.
You're upset.
Well, that and the table.
May I make a suggestion?
Actually, I was going to suggest something else.
I find the exercise programs on the holodeck rigorous enough to put mymind off most frustrations.
That, too
So that when the T'Ong's crew awakens, they're surrounded by their fellow
They could have been on a scientific voyage.
bgcolor="#d5d5d5">
Data, humans sometimes find it helpful to have an outsider set thestandard by which they're judged.
Will.
In her own way, Doctor Pulaski was instructing you to take the shortestroute to victory.
You advanced quite far against such a worthy opponent.
Data.
That was going to be my question.
You know, some of our greatest advances have come from analysing failure.
Yes. Well, a loss can be disheartening.
Data. You can handle defeat in two ways. You can lose confidence, or youcan learn from your mistakes.
Is that all necessary?
That is why you haven't been on the Bridge.
I think you're really over-reacting. I'm sure you're all right.
Yes, sir.
And from these specifics, what general conclusion can you extrapolate?
Wait, wait. You're over-analysing, Data. One cannot deny human nature.
Yes.
And he won't give up.
The man that he is. Exactly.
You'll have to decide that for yourself.
TROI + PULASKI: Data!
You're a very entertaining patient.
Yes. you're making quite an effort to be cheerful.
You feel what anyone in your position would feel.
Even now?
And a lot of impudence.
Imzadi.
Hang on, Will. Hang on.
Why won't they stabilise?
Is the stimulation preventing the infection from taking hold?
He's dreaming.
I don't like goodbyes. How about, until next time.
It's been a pleasure working with you, Commander.
I'm supposed to know how everyone feels, but I can't read you right now.
My job is to help others sort out their emotions. My own feelings arebeside the point.
Are you feeling sad?
So am I.
He's relaxed. Experiencing feelings of warmth and friendship.
To intensify his memories?
No, it's just that Commander Riker's emotions are rather passionate.
Very much so.
Then all we've done is made things worse.
Or the emotions that they produce.
Then if some types of endorphins attract them
You must save him.
Sadness.
Then your theory's correct. The organisms are sensitive to differenttypes of endorphins.
Such as sadness
Then we've found a way to repel the infection.
How much time do we have?
But we've isolated the specific areas to stimulate. The feelings wereprimal. Survival emotions.
Can't you intensify that emotion?
Do we have a choice?
He's getting weaker, isn't he?
Can we tighten the pattern further?
The growth rate's almost down to zero.
I could ask you the same question.
Oh yes we would.
Captain, when the treaty was first negotiated the Federation sent threehundred and seventy two legal experts. What do we have?
In our dealings with other non-humanoid races there has been some pointof reference. Not so with the Sheliak.
Barely. They have learned several Federation languages, but theirscontinues to elude us.
Attempted and failed. Actually, the fact that any alien race communicateswith another is quite remarkable. We are stranded on a planet. We have nolanguage in common, but I want to teach you mine. 
Are you sure? I may have meant liquid, clear, brown, hot. Weconceptualise the universe in relatively the same way.
In your talks, you must be extremely accurate. The treaty is five hundredthousand words. The length was to accommodate the Sheliak. They consider ourlanguage irrational, and demanded this level of complexity to avoid any futuremisunderstandings.
The temporary presence of these humans should not interfere with yourplans.
I don't follow you, sir.
Excuse me, Captain, but Doctor Stubbs is waiting outside.
Doctor Stubbs, I know how much this means to you.
His nonchalance is studied and practised.
He's put his entire self-worth on the line with this experiment. He istelling the truth when he says he'd rather die than leave.
May I come in?
I only want to help.
I'm only worried about your state of mind, Doctor.
Your single-mindedness, your need to have this experiment work.
Your self portrait is so practiced, so polished.
It is stretched so tight the tension fills this room. And if you finallyfail, I fear it will snap.
Captain, there are eleven thousand inhabitants in this colony. At thisrange, I should be sensing something. I'm not.
Could the colonists have escaped?
What I sense of them is human.
It's difficult to explain. I feel there's something different about thesetwo people. I'm sorry. I can't be clearer than that.
I'm sorry. I don't sense them well enough.
I'm sorry, I'm not feeling very well. I'd like to go to my quarters.
Don't listen. Think of something else. Stop! Please, stop!
Yes?
I'm fine. There's nothing wrong. I'm just tired, that's all.
It's so silly. I hear music. In my mind. Music that won't stop.
No, it's deeper than that. The song doesn't stops for an instant. Itplays in perfect clarity from beginning to end over and over again. I don'teven know what song it is. I never heard it before.
A few hours ago, while the away team was on the surface. I was trying to,
I can't explain it, Captain. They're elusive. They're, I'm sorry
Stop! Stop! Please, I'll do anything! Make it stop!
It's so loud! It's getting louder! Please, I can't stand it. Make itstop!
I hear it. It's still there! It's so loud!
No, I want to stay in my quarters.
I don't want to sleep. The music will only follow me.
It's not a dream. It's real.
According to Doctor Barron's preliminary reports, the Mintakans areproto-Vulcan humanoids at the Bronze Age level. Quite peaceful and highlyrational.
Keep work. Palmer.
But our presence must not interfere with the cultural development of the
Mintakan emotions are quite interesting. Like the Vulcans, they havehighly ordered minds. A very sensible people. For example, Mintakan womenprecede their mates. It's a signal to other women.
Not precisely. More like, if you want his services, I'm the one you haveto negotiate with.
All kinds.
His memory's intact.
We are visitors. We've come to trade our cloth. May we speak?
I am Troi and this is Riker. You've had a very interesting dream.
If you are father and daughter, you may well have shared the same dream.
I've seen another one, like Palmer.
He's headed toward the caves.
Over there.
We did not take Palmer.
We set him free. Riker and I do not believe in these fables about an
Mmm hmm.
Uh un.
Mmm hmm.
Liko, you don't want to kill me.
Are you sure you know what he wants? That's the problem with believing ina supernatural being. Trying to determine what he wants.
Captain! Beam them up quickly!
Lieutenant Aster is survived by a son, Jeremy. Twelve years old. He'saboard the Enterprise, sir.
He's also deceased. His only living relatives are an aunt and uncleresiding on Earth.
In class. I've alerted the teacher to expect us.
I sense the weight of this duty on you, Captain.
Death and loss are an integral part of life everywhere. Leaving him on
In time, and with help. Wesley Crusher does. He does. And so will Jeremy.
Jeremy, I know your mother loved you very much.
I'm more interested in how you feel about what happened. I sense greatanger.
Go on.
A person died under your command. It may happen again. If you can't learnto release the anger and the guilt, to talk about it
Captain Picard talks to me.
The Bonding.
It's very generous, Worf, but he's not a Klingon child. He has differentsensibilities.
Right now, there isn't much he can understand. He's holding all hisfeelings inside. Children often feel they must be true to the memory of a lostparent. If you offer affection to them too soon they can feel guilty returningthat affection. As if they're betraying the love of the parent.
I know. And I understand this means a great deal to you. But you must beprepared. He's very angry too, but his anger is deep inside him. When hetouches it, it will strike out in many directions, including yours. Be withhim. Talk to him. But don't rush this. When he's ready, we'll know.
He's being very brave.
No, he has to get past brave. He's very angry and he has to learn how toexpress that anger before he can really say goodbye to his mother.
Well, I've asked Beverly if we might get Wesley to talk to Jeremy abouthis father's death. The one unusual element is Worf.
In many ways he's suffering as badly as the boy. He wishes to involve
I don't think Jeremy's ready to accept Worf right now. Perhaps later, butit will have to be handled most delicately.
We deal with our pain in many different ways, but over the years I'vediscovered it is in our joy that the uniqueness of each individual is revealed.
Sir, I', sensing a presence on the planet. Very vague.
I can't be sure. The emotions of the crew are particularly strong rightnow. It's difficult to filter them out.
My God.
Captain
Captain, there's a presence on the Enterprise.
There is a presence.
Jeremy
Jeremy, I don't know what that was, but it was not your mother.
Your mother's dead.
Why would your real mother want you to go down to the planet? There'snothing there but dust and rocks.
Yes, it matters.
Why would you create this fantasy?
But it's not real.
No, it's not. Could your real mother just make all this appear? You mustnot stay here. Come with me.
I don't think so. She seems to want to help him.
By easing his pain. She's very confused by our resistance, Captain.
He doesn't want to leave. I would not recommend taking him
By force.
Understood.
Standing by.
Jeremy, it's time for this to end. It's not real and it's over now.
I won't trick you or lie to you.
Captain, she's back. She's trying to take Jeremy off the ship again.
What would Jeremy do for friends in your world?
And will you provide for his education, his health, his growth, a career,a wife?
Wes, your mother told me you were finding it difficult to talk to Jeremy.
Go on. You've wanted to tell him for a long time.
How long were you angry with the Captain, Wes?
So, Jeremy, you must be very angry at Lieutenant Worf. He was in chargeof your mother's mission, just as Captain Picard was in command when Wesley'sfather was killed. Isn't that right? Worf came back. Your mother didn't.
He can't answer that. None of us can.
Join me in the R'uustai, the Bonding. You will become part ofmy family now and for all time. We will be brothers.
I'm sorry, Captain, it's just a rare pleasure to meet this side of yourpersonality.
There's great hostility behind his smile. He'll stop at nothing tocomplete his mission.
It's Geordi.
Computer, dispatches.
Transfer the letters from my mother to the viewscreen. And, computer, Iwould like a real chocolate sundae.
Real. Not one of your perfectly synthesised, ingeniously enhancedimitations. I would like real chocolate ice cream, real whipped cream
Listen
Now what? Yes, Captain?
Captain, I'm not really dressed for a reception.
Of course, Captain. I'm on my way.
God forbid I should miss my first look at the wormhole.
Just tell me there's some chocolate here.
Your discovery has produced a great deal of excitement, Premier.
Ship's Counsellor Deanna Troi.
Hired gun?
Come in.
No, I was just looking over some personnel files.
I thought you'd be deep in negotiations by now.
What about your travelling companion?
Why?
Weren't you getting along?
What?
Was I?
What
Thank you. Come in for a drink?
Not your style?
What would you like?
I'm not. Computer, champagne.
No, I'm moving too fast for me.
I haven't been able to stop thinking about you all day.
Anticipation is fun.  We'll be late for dinner.
Mmm?
Mmm-hmmm.  Devinoni Ral. Who are you?
Not much. My human physical response must be blocking them out.
It never happened to me before.
There aren't any others. Currently.
Who have you been talking to?
Will Riker and I are good friends.
It was once a little more than that.
How come we're talking about me instead of you?
Oh no, I want to know about you.
When I first saw you, I felt as if I'd been waiting for you. I'm tryingto understand why or how that's possible.
What?
You're empathic?
That's why you left Earth.
Sorry.
I'll say. Devinoni Ral. It's ridiculous, and wonderful. I feel completelyout of control. Happy. Terrified. But there's nothing rational about this.
I'm afraid I'm going to lose myself. I can't get enough of him. Is itpossible to fall in love in one day?
It was like this for you and Jack?
Well then, maybe I should slow down. Catch my breath. Not let this getout of control.
Everyone was talking today about the way you absorbed the Caldonian bid.
Commander Riker didn't know how you managed it.
But he doesn't have an edge. Your edge.
Isn't it?
Why haven't you told anyone you're an empath?
I think you don't tell them so you can gain an advantage.
But you're reading their emotional states, their inner selves, and thenusing that to manipulate them.
I do it to help my crew, not outmanoeuvre them. And I don't hide that I'man empath.
That's different. That's a matter of protection.
Captain, he's lying. I'm almost sure of it. He doesn't mean what he says.
Excuse me, Premier. There's something you should know. I'm sorry, wasthere something you wanted to say?
I sensed you suddenly felt uncomfortable.
But that's what's so odd. It wasn't tense at all. In fact, I sensed notension from you or Goss.
It was as though you were performing a scene for all of us.
I agree, entirely. Mister Ral asked me not to tell anyone he has empathicpowers which he uses to manipulate his competitors in a negotiation. And yes,it did put me in a conflict of interest, which I hope I have now resolved.
Come in. When do you leave?
I'm sorry.
You must have known I couldn't allow you to do that
I already have a job as Counsellor.
When was the last attempt made?
After a century of wandering, they may be ready to come home.
Brull's ready to negotiate. He just wants privacy so that he won't appearweak in front of the other Gatherers.
It's wonderful.
You're not. I was just leaving. Please, sit down.
There's more here than you're telling us. You're forcing yourself to holdback.
I'm not talking about the base.
Are you all right?
You're on board the USS Enterprise.
A Federation starship.
We were orbiting Angosia when you escaped from Lunar Five.
I'm Deanna Troi, ship's Counsellor.
That terrifies you.
Do they mistreat you there?
Why do you have all this anger toward me?
Why are you doing this?
I am not a mind control expert. I came here because I sensed you were inpain.
The pain is gone.
There's a duality in the man. It's hard to describe. He's aware of hiscrimes. In fact, they trouble him deeply.
He's intelligent, thoughtful, typically Angosian. I know what he's done,but when I'm with him I cannot believe he is randomly and deliberately violent.in fact, inherently, he has a non-violent personality.
I'm not opening the door for him, Captain. I can only tell you that Isense something very unusual about him. Something that is not inherent to acriminal personality.
I understand.
Data, do we have a link up to the Angosian central computer?
Can I see a police record on Roga Danar?
That's impossible. He's been in prison.
Military? He's a soldier ?
It doesn't say here what he was arrested for. Call up his militaryrecord.
What was this man's crime?
I've learned you are a soldier.
Why were you put in prison?
There's no police record. What did you do?
I don't understand.
Because I want to help, if I can.
You are a non-violent man, yet you committed acts of excessive violence.
Did you have to?
So it started with the war?
Roga Danar was an idealistic young man who answered his people's call toservice. He joined the military to fight for the Angosian way of life. What hedidn't realise was that by doing so he would have to give up that way of lifefor ever. He's not the same man who left home to go to war. He's been throughintense psychological manipulation and biochemical modifications.
His own government. He's been programmed to be the perfect soldier. Hecan be absolutely normal, but when a danger is perceived, the programmingclicks in and takes over. Memory, strength, intelligence, reflexes, all becomeenhanced. He's conditioned to survive at any cost.
He committed no crime. He says he was ordered there with others like him.
They were just exiled to Lunar Five.
Roga, this is Captain Picard.
I do not believe that.
Perhaps when this planet becomes a member of the Federation, we'll beable
Roga, don't! You'll be killed!
Yes, Captain.
They were not welcome here.
There are methods of treatment. Until you try them, how can you know theywon't work? Even a partial recovery could give them some peace.
To allow them to suffer?
Roga, tell them what you want.
We have no reason to believe she's been hurt in any way.
The innocent often become the pawns in conflicts of this type, Wes.
He needs your strength right now.
His signal?
Security. Code one emergency. Security!
Lieutenant Worf is recovering in Sickbay. The wound was not severe.
Three dead, four wounded.
They made you human as part of your punishment?
Why?
I am sensing an emotional presence, Captain. I would normally describe itas being terrified.
It seems you have an advocate, Q.
We understand how difficult this will be for you. If you need a recess,please, don't hesitate to ask.
Will, come on, sit down.
Will, I didn't sense any deception from her.
No! No, of course not. I know you. You don't have to convince me ofanything.
It is the truth as each of you remembers it.
We both know Will's innocent.
Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence?
Well, he wouldn't have earned great profits from his dealings with
Yes. He was very mysterious.
It's not like Data to be so secretive.
How do you do, Lal?
Why didn't you give it a more human look, Data?
Why should biology rather than technology determine whether it is achild? Data has created an offspring. A new life out of his own being. To me,that suggests a child. If he wishes to call Lal his child, then who are we toargue?
You've never been a parent.
That's right, Lal. Just like me.
Whatever you choose will be yours for your lifetime. It's a decision thatwill affect how people interrelate with you.
Several thousand?
Yes, yes, of course, Data.
Interesting. You'll be the only one on board the Enterprise, Lal.
Very attractive. There's no problem with socialisation here.
I like her.
A friend for Worf. They're all very interesting. Do you have a favourite?
Congratulations, Data. It's a girl.
Come in.
Hello, Lal. How are you?
You are scared, aren't you?
I don't know.
Troi to Commander Data. Report to your lab at once.
Yes, Captain. Something is terribly wrong with Lal.
It lasted barely a moment. She experienced fear and confusion. And thenfor no apparent reason she walked out of my quarters. She didn't say anotherword, she just started walking here and each step became more and moredifficult.
Are you adjusting to your new environment, Commander?
If it's too rich, Geordi, fold.
Would you care to join us, Captain? We have an opening.
Flush. Queen high.
Certainly, sir.
I sense no unusual reaction, Captain. After all, such a change is hardlyout of the ordinary.
They're curious, yes. But concerned? No, they trust you.
Sir?
Well, I'd inform you, sir, of course.
The Captain has given unusual orders before.
The Captain does seem detached from his emotions.
And he was very odd with me afterwards. He wanted me to warn him if thecrew started to lose confidence in him.
I detect no evidence of telepathic coercion.
It's good to be back. The last two weeks have been gruelling.
He was. I don't know how he managed it. The Gemarians and the Dachlydsare both incredibly stubborn people.
He has been under a great deal of strain lately. While we were on
Actually, I have a solution in mind, but I doubt he'll agree to it.
Our captain needs a vacation.
Will, I've just had some terrific news.
There's an excellent chance my mother may be joining us on Starbasetwelve.
She's returning home from a conference on Achrady Seven, and she's goingto try to rearrange her schedule so she can spend some time visiting with us.
She mentioned how much she was looking forward to seeing you again,
You look very handsome, if I might saying so Captain.
Too often, Commander.
Enjoy your trip, Captain.
Was it a relaxing trip, Captain?
Captain, let me come with you to greet Tam.
I do. He was at the university on Betazed when I studied psychologythere.
No. He was a patient
Tam is a telepath of extraordinary talent, even for a Betazoid. He's aspecialist in first contact with new life forms.
He's a very unique person, but he's not what you might expect, Captain.
I've been fine, but I thought
The opportunity for discovery is extraordinary but I don't understand
Well, in most Betazoids our telepathic gifts develop at adolescence.
No. Except for some reason that no one understands, occasionally a
Most Betazoids born like that never lead a normal life.
And painful. Early diagnosis and special training did help Tam adjust,but he has some problems.
For stress. Repeatedly, throughout his life.
I thought you might be lonely. No one sees you except Data.
You want them to dislike you. Why?
I remember.
And you're still looking.
What happened there?
No. What happened to you?
So, after that you ran away? The last I heard, you were the only
Unlike humanoids?
I believe your impression of Data is probably unique.
But you accepted this mission. You could have stayed on Chandra Five. Youwillingly came aboard a ship with over a thousand people.
How can you know that? Tam? You're in contact with it. With Tin Man.
We're light years away. That's impossible, even for you.
Tam. Stop this! You're losing yourself in this this merging.
Captain
Captain, the issue isn't one of trust in Tam's intentions, but in hisjudgment. I would trust him to do what he believes is right
Is precarious. The stress of exposure to so many minds on the ship is badenough. Now he's strongly drawn to this creature. I'm afraid for him.
I sense that the alien is somehow calling him. If we allow him to do ashe insists, to beam over, I'm believe that we will lose him to it. That he willlose himself.
Captain, if Tam breaks down over there, we'll be no closer toaccomplishing our mission. It would be a grave mistake.
Captain, I don't
Tam?
You sent for me?
What did happen?
Wounded? Isolated?
Data, you do understand.
I feel your confidence, your arrogant resolve. It excites me.
Oh.
What do you wish you had said?
You're letting it get you much too upset.
Why are you so hard on yourself?
I understand, but let go of it. You're here now.
Of course. Let me help you relax.
I knew you would.
I am the goddess of Empathy. Cast off your inhibitions and embrace love,truth, joy.
I know this is difficult for you. Is there anything I can do to make youmore comfortable?
Have you ever been with a counsellor before?
Which one?
Most people find a counsellor intimidating at first. It's okay if youfeel that way toward me.
Good. Now, lean back, close your eyes.
I want to make you more comfortable.
Yes.
It's okay. Close your eyes.
Just listen to the sound of my voice. Take a slow deep breath in throughyour nose and let it out through your mouth just as slowly. That's better,isn't it?
But
I had a very strange visit from one of your officers today.
To be honest, I'm not sure what happened.
Computer, belay that order.
If Barclay is having difficulty facing reality, to suddenly destroy hisonly means of escape would be brutal and could do considerable damage.
You are very tall. It might be threatening to some people.
It could provide us with valuable information about what's troubling him.
You're taking it so seriously. It's not without its element of humour.
Computer, discontinue.
Muzzle it.
We have a lot to talk about, Mister Barclay.
Good luck, Reg.
Dali. This is the only known Roger Maris trading card from Earthcirca 1962. The smell? Bubblegum. I've preserved the scent. What? A Lapling.
Finoplak, one hundred denkirs. 
 See you later.  Your first watch at Ops?
I've been concerned about you.
Because I know how I'd feel if I was asked to replace Data at hisstation.
I know, but this isn't a Klingon ship and Data was your friend. And it'sthe second time you've replaced a crewmate who's died.
In true Klingon fashion.
Does this mean you're going to cancel the concert this evening?
Why not ask his wife if she'd like to attend?
Do you know why you did it?
Beverly, this is important. What were you thinking when you hit Wes?
And Wesley didn't provoke you in any way? It wasn't anything he said, oranything he did?
I don't know why you did it either, but I can tell you that I've heardthe same kind of story from ten different people over the last two days.
Captain, this is not an isolated incident. There have been reports ofrandom violence all over the ship.
It's not that simple, Captain.
I felt something during the concert. Vague and undefined, but verydisturbing
Well, Vulcans have the same basic emotions we do. They've just learned torepress them. What I sensed during the concert was that he'd lost control.
Vulcans possess telepathic ability. Sarek may unintentionally beprojecting intense emotions onto other people, at random.
Mother, we're among non-telepaths. It's impolite not to speak aloud.
Let's not guess what might have been. I love my work aboard the
 Could I?
Are we at war with the Ferengi yet?
My mother will be relieved.
I'll be sure to tell her you said so.
Mother? Mother, please.
The Sacred Chalice of Rixx is an old clay pot with mold growing insideit.
That's true. I'm sorry, and I didn't mean to get so upset with you at thereception.
I am happy. Why can't you believe that?
I get a great deal of satisfaction out of my work.
This is my family. My friends here on the Enterprise.
Mother, look. Perhaps some day I will marry. But you've got to let memake my own choices, live my own life, and not the life you would choose forme.
I did not ruin anything. We've became very good friends.
Little One? You called me that when I was five. Now stop demeaning me andaddress me as an adult!
Maybe it died. It has been a few years.
It's lovely. I remember that sound, and all the good times we had.
Mother, how did you know about this place?
Mother.
Mother, stop it.
I don't believe this.
Enterprise? Must be too far out of range.
Why have you removed our clothing?
I don't like the sound of this, mother.
Mother, are you sure?
So far, Mother's in no danger. I hope she knows what she's doing.
 Good work, Mother.  According to Mother, DaiMon Tog isextremely relaxed at the moment.
Let's see just how relaxed DaiMon Tog is.
Mother, we're out of the cell and we're trying to contact the
We're running out of time. Farek's about to begin the neural scan on
Meaning what?
Mother. Will, we have to help her.
Mother, we can't just leave you here.
My mother bought our freedom, Captain. She doesn't want to stay with Tog.
I think I know what she's doing. You have to fight to get her back,
Seven, six
I believe so. Sunad's hatred for John was evident but there's somethingelse. The Zalkonians are afraid of John.
Sunad thinks so. He feels personally threatened by John.
The Zalkonians truly don't understand our indecision about returning
No help there.
Three jacks looking back for the handsome young ensign.  Pair ofdeuces stands.  Flush, possible straight flush. Your bet, Mister
What do you think?
I don't think so.
You mean you're older, more experienced. A little more seasoned.
I don't think you've lost a thing, and I think you've gained more thanyou realise. You're much more comfortable with yourself than you used to be.
I'm not sure I know what that means. You're happy here. Happier than I'veever known you to be. So, it comes down to a simple question. What do you want,
Commander Riker. It is inappropriate for you to lead the away team. Untilthe return of Captain Picard, you are in command of the Enterprise. We're in astate of war, and your place is on the Bridge.
I'll see to that.
In two or three weeks, nanites may be all that's left of the Federation.
Data!
No, it's not. It's him. It's Picard.
Troi to Bridge.
Data has made first contact with Captain Picard.
It is Captain Picard speaking, not Locutus.
How do you feel?
There is life on board, but it's fading.
They're terrified.
He won't talk, Captain. We haven't been able to get through to him.
Jono, what is it? Jono! I just suggested he take off his gloves. Suddenlyhe lost control.
Captain, if Jeremiah is returned to his family in his present condition,it would be a wrenching experience for everyone. Especially for him. He needsto re-discover his identity, make some connection with his roots.
I don't think I can do anything, Captain.
Jeremiah needs to build a relationship with a man, a father figure withwhom he can explore his origins. And I think it should be you, Captain.
But you are the only person with whom he has shown any connection. If heis to find his humanity then you are the only one who can help him. It's up toyou, Captain.
You wanted to see me, Captain?
Really?
I see.
Seldom have I heard an explanation so well-rehearsed.
Strange, isn't it? You'll travel light years, dodge asteroid storms,brave hostile aliens, and yet when asked to assume a parental role, you cringe.
When you were a child, did you have any friends? Other children youplayed with?
What were you going to say?
You know, Captain, almost no one is born being a good parent. Most peoplejust have to muddle through and do the best that they can.
Yes. And you might be surprised at just how good you can be.
I sense awakening memories in the boy. This is a very fragile time for
If we can just reach Jono, help him make some connections with hisorigins, he may choose to come with us.
Hey, hey, slow down.
Why don't you try, Jake?
So, where have you decided to go?
Really?
Interesting.
I just find it interesting. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, the man who couldn'tbe pried out of his seat for a vacation for three years
I don't know. What do you think?
Those you can see in the mirror.
I agree. In fact, I'm delighted you're going. It's just that the choiceof where you're going could stand some scrutiny.
Is that what you believe?
Captain, you do need time. You cannot achieve complete recovery soquickly. And it's perfectly normal, after what you've been through, to spend agreat deal of time trying to find yourself again.
Interesting. Have a good trip, Captain.
Maybe. Will and I have been talking about going back to Angel Falls.
Something from home?
 How to Advance Your Career through Marriage?
What's that?
Why?
Are you afraid of what it might say?
Wesley has a lot of questions about his father. Things that you can'tanswer for him. Perhaps seeing this will help him understand.
If you can ask the question, I'd say no.
Then ask me one I can answer.
What if it is just you?
So what? You've acted in the best interest of your ship and crew. Whatmore could you ask of yourself? If it turns out to be a mistake, then we'll bea little late arriving at Durenia Four. That's all.
When we reach Starbase, I'll order a complete workup, both physical andpsychological.
Can you go in and get her back?
I fold.
You two have successfully divided the evening between you.
Careful, Data.
Incredible.
He's deceiving us, and he's clearly hoping to manipulate us. As for theidentity of the young woman, I can't really tell.
I get a sense of ambiguity from her. Her loyalties are clearly divided,
No, I'm just not sure she wants to escape. It's the only way of lifeshe's ever known.
Data?
You seem so strong in your support. I'm curious.
Now something has changed that.
Some things improve with age. Maybe your trombone playing will be one ofthem.
So, what did you wish for, Will?
How are you feeling?
Then there has been some memory loss.
It's overwhelming to have so much of your life missing.
You saved them, Will, you and the Enterprise.
Where you will complete the negotiations and sign the treaty.
Let me take you to your quarters.
Anything familiar?
I need to talk to your father, Jean-Luc. Would you mind leaving us alonefor a moment?
Beverly hoped that meeting him like this might make an impact. Help youremember.
Give it time.
Yes. The Admiral was very pleased when you chose that name. He is awonderful boy.
She died two years ago. A shuttle accident. I'm sorry, Will.
Min was beautiful, of course, strong, intelligent, patient.
Admiral Picard offered me a position at Starfleet Command. It was atremendous opportunity. I couldn't refuse. But, what's important right now,today, is that you have a son who needs you. Spend time with him. You may findpart of what you've lost.
We did our best to prepare him.
That was a long time ago. Many things have changed, including Tomalak.
I sense no such dishonesty in Tomalak. His desire for peace is sincere.
Will, I sense how upset you are. You're angry and impatient.
Beverly? We've contacted the nearest Starbase for a search vessel. I'mafraid the closest one is almost a week away.
But we have asked the mining settlement to send any vessels they mighthave. You know, there are many reasons why the shuttlecraft may have beendelayed.
Given in to what?
Maybe some of us aren't facing it at all.
Recovery from a great loss involves a great deal of pain. If we try toavoid that pain, we can make it harder on ourselves in the long run.
Today would have been your husband's thirty eighth birthday.
They didn't take everything away.
What? What?
Oh. No, no, I'm fine. I'm just very tired, that's all. Will I see youtomorrow?
Troi to Doctor Crusher.
Beverly
I'm feeling very dizzy.
I'm not sure. I'm not sure what happened.
Well, when I first called you I was feeling intense pain. Now it's gone,but I'm feeling a bit foggy.
I think so.
Nothing. Nothing, I'm fine.
No, I don't think so. No. There's nothing. Nothing. I sense nothing.
No, you don't understand. I don't sense anything. Not out there, not inhere. All of you, you're all blank to me.
Unresponsive?
But I feel perfectly fine otherwise.
The Betazoid brain has a remarkable ability to heal itself. Thiscondition could just reverse itself time.
It's just hope, Beverly. Not false hope.
Well, then I have an advantage, don't I? I see her quite often.
You don't have to tell me, Beverly. I understand the psychology.
I may be perfectly fine by tomorrow.
Okay, fine, if I need to. Right now, I just want to go back to work.
If there are no medical objections?
Thank you, Beverly. Will.
Come in.
You know what the worst part of this is? And I've seen it happen to somany patients.
The way other people change. How they start to treat you differently.
I will not be treated that way!
Oh, please.
I'm fine. If I get better, I get better. If I don't, I'll adapt. Lifegoes on.
I really have to finish this. I have some appointments this afternoon.
You said you woke up a new woman this morning.
Tell me about her, this new woman.
She's not?
And you feel different now?
Can I share something important with you?
I've temporarily lost my empathic sense. It's kind of like having onehand tied behind your back.
No, no, I'm fine. It's just I feel before we continue it's important youknow that. Okay?
Because I can't tell how you're feeling this morning, but it seems to methat one night of crying can't make up for months of denial.
What do you mean by that? I'm doing the best that I can.
Beverly, I can't do my job. I'm absolutely lost. You have to dosomething.
Inconclusive. What does that mean?
How do you people live like this?
You have no idea. No idea what this is like. How can you know what it'slike to lose something you never had?
And yet you're telling me I'm supposed to get used to it.
If our positions were reversed, I wouldn't have been in here treatingskinned elbows while you were lying passed out on your office floor. I'd havebeen there a lot sooner. Perhaps in time to prevent this from ever happening!
I've been working with Ensign Brooks since the death of her husband.
It's time I accept the truth, Captain, and resign as ship's counsellor.
I can no longer fulfill my obligations. What other option is there?
It is for me.
With all due respect, Captain, you don't know what you're talking about.
Captain, spare me the inspirational anecdote and just accept myresignation.
Come in.
I really would rather be alone right now.
Is this how you handle all of your personnel problems?
Will, I don't know what to do.
I look around me and all I see are surfaces without depth. Colourless.
No, you're not. You're a projection, with no more substance to me than acharacter on the holodeck.
You have no idea how frightening it is to just be here without sensingyou, without sharing your feelings.
What?
That isn't true.
Really, you don't have to.
That's alright. I'm getting used to it.
Sure.
No.
No.
You'd make a good counsellor.
About what? You becoming counsellor?
It's more than just letting them cry on your shoulder. It takes anenormous commitment.
Guinan, people come to you to talk about things they want to reveal. Asship's counsellor, you have to get them to talk about things they don't want toreveal.
What are you? You don't really want to be ship's counsellor.
I just know you're not serious.
Not really, but
No. I suppose it's just instinctive. I get it. You're trying to make mesee that I have other abilities to draw on. Human intuition, instincts. Guinan,those skills only develop after years of experience. It's not that easy.
So I'm discovering.
Come in. Janet. Oh, I'm sorry, I meant to cancel your appointment today.
I think it was fairly clear during your last appointment. It wasobviously non productive. I couldn't sense what you were feeling.
You wanted to see me, Captain?
How much time do we have?
Sir?
I thought Data had already tried to establish communications through theuniversal translator.
I wish I knew how to help, Captain, but under the circumstances
Are your signals reaching them?
Is there any evidence at all that they're sentient?
I'm sorry, Data. I don't seem to be much help without my empathicabilities. I just don't know how to draw on my human instinct.
Right now, I feel as two-dimensional as our friends out there. In theuniverse but barely aware of it. Just trying to survive on instinct. Data, whatif they're simply acting instinctively? There are inherent, inborn forces inevery species. What they need, what they fear. We have to discover what drivesthis species.
We can speculate on the available evidence.
Which may suggest some kind of awareness of our presence.
On a straight line to the cosmic string. You're convinced the string'sgravitation is pulling them in?
Why?
Moths fly toward a flame. Horses sometimes run into a burning barn. Data,don't you see? We've been thinking in three dimensions. We have to get two-dimensional.
Subspace signals, photon torpedoes, nothing's had an impact. It isreasonable to wonder if a gravitational pull, even as strong as a cosmicstring's, would affect them.
What if they've chosen a course to the cosmic string? A case of purestimulus response, driven by instinct, just like the moth to a flame.
It's all right. They're home. We were wrong. The cosmic string it wasnever dangerous to them. It was the one place in the galaxy they most wanted tobe.
Yes. I sensed it.
Such overwhelming intensity of emotion. When we first encountered them,it must have been more than my senses could process.
Something like that. Oh, Beverly.
I was so awful to her.
I never fully appreciated how difficult and how rewarding it is to behuman, but I had a lot of help. Thanks.
It's been taken.
And you. Thank you for making me face my other half.
A little. You were right, though. There is something to be learned whenyou're not in control of every situation.
By the way. The next time you call me aristocratic.
That's a good question, Data. I wish I had a good answer for you. Perhapswhen they're ready, they will.
A suitable guide for what?
Good luck.
Data, would you like my advice on how to help them? Don't. This issomething they have to work out for themselves.
There are many ways to help a friend, and sometimes the best way is toleave them alone.
I don't know. They're very much in love, but sometimes that isn't enough.
Usually. Why do you ask?
Data, I had no idea you'd thought about getting married.
Data, you do have a lot to offer.
DATA : Commander
Running, Captain? You? That's hard to believe.
They're our allies now, Mister Worf. We have to trust them.
Yes, Captain.
This situation is deteriorating, Captain. The people are approachinglevels of anxiety that could lead to suicide.
Much better. a fine example for the others. Who would you be?
An entire planet has been terrorised because of the suggestion thatyou're going to enslave the population.
Or economic forecasts.
She has an incredibly focused mind. It was virtually impossible to senseany deception. Or anything else, for that matter.
Someone close at hand and yet unattainable. I can do anything for you,
I think so. I'm feeling a bit unfocused. It'll pass.
Just a moment. Yes. Yes, I'm fine.
I suddenly became dizzy. I'd think I'd better go to my quarters.
No. No, really, I'm all right.
Thank you for coming with me, Mister Worf.
I just need some rest. Thanks.
The mirror. I came in here. I looked into the mirror. It wasn't me, Worf!
I feel fine, now.
It wasn't what I saw, it was more what I felt. I looked into the mirror,and it seemed a stranger was staring back at me from behind my own eyes. As ifmy face was a mask.
The plan has failed.
Your ship is again in our space.
Nevertheless, you are here.
You have invaded our system.
Your knowledge of us is unacceptable.
Our stun field had no effect on him. He remained conscious while we triedto take over the ship.
You are aware of our existence. Our attempt to place you in biochemicalstasis has failed. We have no choice but to destroy this ship.
No.
There are over a thousand lifeforms on this vessel. How could you assuretheir silence?
It does.
It would take time. One of your days. He is immune to our influence.
Agreed.
Your plan has failed. This ship must be destroyed.
Again?
You are a most unusual species. Worthy of a second chance. Proceed.
There's a general feeling of disorientation on board, but nothing seriousas far as I can tell.
Please, don't be alarmed at our appearance.
We've come with some important information.
We come from a federation of planets. Captain Picard is from a planetcalled Earth, which is over two thousand light years from here. I'm fromanother planet called Betazed.
We've come to you first because you're a leader in the scientificcommunity. Scientists generally accept our arrival more easily than others.
One of the things we monitor are your broadcast signals, your journalism,your music, your humour. Try to better understand you as a people.
For several years.
The capital city. He was under the name of Rivas Jakara, a tourist fromthe Marta community.
Captain, everything you did was consistent with established Starfleetprocedures.
Is there something we can do to help?
Come on. You can do it.
It's imprinted on us. It thinks the Enterprise is its mother.
It's feeding off the energy of the Enterprise as it would from itsmother.
There is life on board, but
I don't know. Something 
Commander, I need to come too.
There is someone alive, but he didn't kill these people. Here.
I think he's Betazoid. It's all right. We're going to help you. Who didthis? Who did this to you?
I'm not getting much, Captain. A few words, disconnected phrases. I canfeel his terror but I can't seem to get through to him.
I'm here. I'm right here.
Voices? What do they say?
Keep talking to me. I'll try to understand.
Where are you? I'm coming. Where are you?
Where are you?
I'm here. Can you hear me? Tell me about the voices you hear.
I don't understand. Bright what? Tell me more.
We're concerned. We're afraid whatever happened on the Brittain may bestarting here.
Well, Beverly and I have been getting unusual reports. People behavingstrangely, others hearing sounds that aren't there.
We can't track down any element that might be responsible.
What about nightmares?
Where are you?
I'm still here. I haven't gone anywhere. Do you remember anythingmore?
What does that mean? Is something doubled?
Except me. And all I have is nightmares. I can hardly sleep at allanymore. In the end, I'll be like him. Just like him.
Worf, no!
Security to Lieutenant Worf's quarters, immediately.
Why? What is it?
What? What do you feel?
To admit that you're afraid gives you strength.
No, Worf. It's just an illusion. It's not real. Please, put down theknife.
It's all right. Everything's fine, thank you.
Let me take you to Sickbay.
Once before you said double. What did you mean? What is double?
What do you mean? you can't leave?
You want to leave. Why can't you?
Eyes in the dark. That's what the voice said in my dream. Is that whereyou heard it? In a dream? Over and over? Beverly, I know what it is. I knowwhat's happening.
My nightmare. It's not a dream. It's not a dream at all. It's a message.
REM sleep occurs at a different frequency for Betazoids than otherhumanoids. I believe the beings are using that frequency to communicatetelepathically.
They're calling for help. I think they're trapped just like we are. Eyesin the dark could mean this twin star system.
Maybe communication through dreams can work both ways. I could try to getthem to stop.
It is conceivable. When working with patients with debilitatingnightmares, I've often used a therapeutic treatment called directed dreaming.
What is it you're looking for?
No, Data, no. This is too complex. This has to be a simple, clearmessage.
Stop. Go back. Further back. There. Stop. One moon circles.
One moon circles. That's what they've been telling me over and over.
Well, if it's a distress call, I think they'd be asking for what theyneed, not what they already have.
How do I tell them what to do?
Two minutes.
Is that all, Data?
Where are you?
Where are you? I have to find you. I have to tell you.
Please, I must find you to tell you.
Wonderful! Wonderful.
Well done.
You've come a long way, Reg.
I don't just mean your acting ability. It takes a great deal of courageto put yourself on display like that.
There was a time when nothing could have dragged you onto a stage infront of an audience. You've made tremendous progress.
Don't you think so?
I disagree. This isn't fantasy, it's theatre. You used to withdraw ontothe holodeck. You isolated yourself inside your own imagination, avoidingcontact with real people. Look at yourself now. Look at all the other peopleyou're with. You're not just acting, you're interacting. Give yourself somecredit, Mister Barclay.
Reg? May I join you?
Hard at work?
I really enjoyed the scene you just performed.
Not at all. I thought you were brilliant. You've changed.
Pure observation.
I'm proud of you, Reg. I'm glad for you, too. Well, I'd better be going.
I think so.
Reg, as your former counsellor, I don't think it would be appropriate.
Goodnight, Mister Barclay.
Well, he did make a pass at me last night.  Agood one.
No, but it's certainly unusual behaviour for Barclay.
Now, create a standard alphanumeric console positioned for lefthand. Now an iconic display console positioned for right hand. Tie bothconsoles into the Enterprise main computer core, utilising neural-scaninterface.
Captain, let me go to the holodeck and try and talk to him.
Reg.
So am I. Reg, you've frightened all of us. I'm sure that wasn't yourintent.
Are we children to you now?
You've got it. From all of us. We don't need any more convincing. Please,obey the Captain's orders. Stop whatever it is you're doing.
How can we trust an officer who doesn't follow orders?
The Captain will do everything in his power to stop you.
So how much do you remember?
How do you feel now?
You know. almost everyone has a moment in their lives when they exceedtheir own limits, achieve what seems to be impossible.
You almost always feel a sense of loss, but it is possible to carrysomething of that experience through the rest of your life in ways that youaren't even aware of now.
Excuse me, Commander, but I believe Mister Barclay and I had a datescheduled, for a walk in the Arboretum?
I know.
I didn't know you played chess.
I thought you'd like to know the Council members have beamed aboard andbeen assigned their quarters.
Captain, it really is quite late.
I thought you'd already decided on a chronological structure.
May I make a suggestion?
Relax. You've written a brilliant speech.
I doubt they see of you as an amateur. Not when it comes to Tagus Three.
It is unfortunate that the Taguans no longer allow outsiders to visit theruins.
And I'm sure the council members will agree with you.
Now goodnight, Captain.
He does, when he thinks it's necessary.
Not that I recall.
You must understand, the Captain is a very
TROI + VASH: Private man.
Of course.
Is this Tagus Three?
Data, are you alright?
Where's Vash?
J'Dan, we have confirmed reports that schematic drawings of our dilithiumchamber fell into Romulan hands one week later.
Our Chief Security Officer is Klingon. That has nothing to do with it.
It's hard to tell. He is very closed, but he is hiding something.
Mother, what did you want?
You were waiting for me.
Mother. Please.
Mother, how much
We're not alone, Mother. Now how much longer is this going to take?
That's not very telepathic of you.
You know, you're not just incorrigible, you're insatiable.
Mother? What's going on? What are you doing?
He can't, Mother. He has his orders.
No, they apply to him.
Come on, Mother, let's sit down.
There's no need to be.
You cried when father died.
Of course I remember. We both cried.
What do you think?
You're feeling very vulnerable. Very mortal, if I may say so. I know you,
Not sure of yourself?
You were honest with him, Mother. You had to be.
Of course you do. But you didn't do this for yourself, you did it forhim.
Ritual provides a structure in society, good rituals and bad ritualsalike.
Your point of view.
I'll see you later, Mother. Excuse me.
Where've you been?
It's Ambassador Odan. I continually feel fluctuations of emotion fromhim.
It could be. We know so very little about them.
Hi. Is that the colgonite astringent you have on your eyes?
I've never tried it.
I didn't know you even came in here.
But it feels good to indulge yourself sometimes.
Especially when you haven't done so in a while.
Beverly, you're in love.
I don't really think it's really a secret.
You've been glowing.
Nothing.
It's just something I sense in Odan.
It's just, how well do you really know him?
And you like it.
Who was responsible?
May I join you?
What do your feelings tell you?
Don't wish that, Beverly. You can't be open to love if you don't riskpain.
Look at him.
The first man I ever loved was my father. He was strong and tall. Hecarried me when the ground was muddy. He chased away the monsters that hidunder my bed at night. And he sang to me, and kept me safe. And he went away.
You had a good time.
You're more relaxed than I've ever seen you.
Geordi, I get the feeling that something special happened on thisvacation, and I'm not talking about computers.
Yes.
And?
And that's all?
Yes?
I know you do. Just take that memory and put it aside for a moment, andtell me everything you remember about the shuttlecraft trip after you left the
And when you saw the Romulan ship, did you try calling for help?
It'll take time, Geordi. A long time. But we will reconstruct yourmemory. Together.
Believe it or not, that's a good sign. A beginning. Now, let's go back tothe shuttlecraft. There was a Romulan ship and the first thing you did was?
I think you should be careful. This isn't just some experiment you'rerunning, Data. Jenna is a living, breathing person with needs and feelings thathave to be considered.
I didn't say that. I just want you to be aware that this is unlike anyother more casual relationship that you've attempted.
Ultimately, Jenna will care for you for what you are, not what youimitate out of a book.
We're all more than the sum of our parts, Data. You'll have to be morethan the sum of your programming.
I'm not saying we should accept her claim at face value, but I sensed nodeception from her. She really believes she is the daughter of Tasha Yar.
Sela could have been cloned.
Everything in the previous encounters suggests a peaceable race. We haveto start from there.
I'm sense nothing but good intentions from them, Captain.
Captain Picard could be dead by then.
You're still assuming this is some sort of a challenge ritual. We can'tbe certain of that.
Darmok. Well, it seems to be a point of contention between them. Perhapssomething the Tamarian captain proposed that the First Officer didn't like.
Computer, search for the term Darmok in all linguistic databases for thissector.
Stop search. Computer, how many entries are there for Darmok?
All our technology and experience, our universal translator, our years inspace, contacts with more alien cultures than I can even remember.
And we still can't even say hello to these people.
A single word can lead to tragedy. One word misspoken or misunderstood.
Stop. Shantil Three. Computer, cross-reference the last entry with theprevious search index.
I think we've got something.
He may be injured.
Unfortunately, it may not be that simple.
It's as if I were to say to you, Juliet on her balcony.
Exactly. Imagery is everything to the Tamarians. It embodies theiremotional states, their very thought processes. It's how they communicate, andit's how they think.
That's correct. For instance, we know that Darmok was a great hero, ahunter, and that Tanagra was an island, but that's it. Without the details,there's no understanding.
At least this man has genuine experience in diplomacy.
Do you mind if we join you?
Data, I'm picking up energy fluctuations over here. Troi to Picard.
I perceived no fear or deception from him.
Captain, the fact that they're not responding doesn't necessarily meanthere's anything wrong. The atmospheric disturbance could be jamming thesignal.
I don't think you need an empath to sense that woman's feelings. There'shostility that she seems to have transferred from Lore to Data. Perhaps youshouldn't have forced them together so soon.
Is it responding to us?
Maybe it doesn't like what we're doing.
Something's very wrong, Captain.
Captain, I'd like to introduce you to the winners of the primary schoolscience fair. This is Marissa, Jay Gordon, and Patterson. They're here fortheir tour.
I'm sure you'll have a wonderful time.
I'm all right. Medical team to the Bridge. Troi to Sickbay. Counsellor
Medical team to the Bridge.
Lieutenant Monroe!
I'm not really familiar with that protocol.
There are a lot of people still alive. Many of them are hurt but I can'ttell where they are.
I'd appreciate some suggestions.
Very well.
Yes. Mister Mandel, I'd like you to assist Ensign Ro.
Yes. How big is a quantum filament?
So, it's like a cosmic string?
What is our engine status, Ensign?
Which means?
What do you suggest?
You said there was no way to stabilise the containment field from the
Could we divert energy from the Bridge to those monitors?
I believe there are still people alive down there and I'm going to givethem every chance. Assuming they're alive, they'll be hoping there's someone uphere who can help them. So we'll help them. Chief, divert the necessary powerto Engineering.
Thank you, Ensign. Proceed.
Have you made preparations to separate the Saucer section?
What happened?
We will separate the ship when I decide that it's time, and not before.
You could have easily been right.
Now just wait here.
I don't think I'm cut out to be Captain. First officer, maybe. Iunderstand there aren't many qualifications.
I'm fine, Commander.
No, you can join us.
Really? I never met a chocolate I didn't like.
Of course it does, but it's not just a matter of taste. It's the wholeexperience. First of all, you have to spoon the fudge around the rim, leavingonly ice cream in the middle. Then, you gently spoon the ice cream around thesides, like you're sculpting it. Relish every bite. Make every one an event.
Chocolate is a serious thing.
Oh? What is it?
You're looking very handsome.
Come by my quarters and I'll show it to you.
I'm afraid I don't see how a stolen Vulcan ship fits into all this.
The Romulans could have a cloaked base on the surface.
What?
Vulcan?
Perhaps his reunification talks were successful.
They destroyed their own invasion force.
The Quartermaster of the supply yard, with information you need.
He's king of his particular hill, Commander. You'll have to treat himthat way.
Mister Dokachin, we must find this ship and you're the only one who canhelp us.
Deanna Troi, Ship's Counsellor.
Are you serious?
It's hard to tell, but he is holding something back.
It might be that, I don't know.
He's after more than a history lesson. I can tell you that.
I don't know. It's like he's trying to confuse us, misdirect us somehow.
I've got some things to take care of.
I don't dislike you, Professor.
Should I?
Picard's empath?
Why should you care whether I trust you or not?
You're right. I don't trust you.
I'm sure you did.
I really have to be going.
Computer, eliminate programme three. Computer, halfvolume.
Worf. I was just talking with Mrs. Kyle the primary school teacher. Shetold me you enrolled Alexander in her class this morning.
I'm sure he'll do very well. She's a wonderful teacher.
Did she tell you about the father-son field trip this afternoon?
Why not?
This would be a good opportunity for you to meet some of the otherstudents and parents.
Good. I'll let them know you're coming.
Worf.
I just wanted to know how the field trip went yesterday.
No. Why?
May I ask how?
I see. Sometimes these things aren't over as quickly as they seem to be.
Are you sure this is what you want?
Have you discussed this with Alexander?
I see.
I'm not here to approve or disapprove of the way you raise your son. Myconcern right now is how this decision is going to affect you. How will youfeel when Alexander's gone?
Is that how you felt when he left to live with your parents?
I understand. The idea of raising a child can seem a tremendous burden,particularly to a solitary parent.
I see. Have you ever wondered how Alexander felt about being sent away?
Do you think he felt abandoned? After all, he left very soon after
It's possible. Children don't have the experience to handle emotionalcrises. Instead of dealing with their feelings, they act on them. Tell me aboutthe last time you spoke with K'Ehleyr, the night she died.
What about?
So you were angry with her?
Are you still angry with her?
It would be very normal to be angry with her. Angry because she died andleft you alone with a son you never knew you had. Being angry doesn't mean youloved her any less, Worf, but you can't hide from your feelings, just as
Timothy, would you like Data to stay with you a little bit longer? 
His world is gone, Data. We're going to have to help him build a new one.
If he's lying, I haven't been able to sense it. Perhaps his emotionaltrauma level is too high.
He's still in shock. it's hard to know what's going on in his mind rightnow.
Data. Captain, I think we should ask Data to spend some time with him.
I'm very worried about his behaviour and what I've just heard doesn'tmake me feel any better. Data, you're the only one he's reached out to, becauseyou rescued him. We can use your relationship with him to help his recovery.
It's a possibility.
Just be with him. You're a presence he trusts, and that's what he needsmost right now.
No, but I do have an appointment with him in less than half an hour.
Hello, Timothy. Are you ready to go?
How are you feeling?
Established parameters? You sound like Data.
I see. Well, let's go for our walk, shall we?
So, what would you like?
No, I'm fine, thank you.
So you're no longer a human?
When did this happen?
What's it like being an android?
You don't? No emotion at all?
I know it sounds unusual, but it is understandable. Technically, it'scalled enantiodromia. Conversion into the opposite. Timothy went from human tomachine, from being emotional to being emotionless. But the underlying traumais still there. He's just found a new way to suppress it.
As long as he needs it to. Timothy is rebuilding his identity as best hecan. The android persona is just one step along the way. As soon as he feelsstronger and more sure of himself, it should drop away naturally.
Not yet. The best thing we can do right now is to let Timothy take uswhere he wants to go. We should support the process and even encourage it.
Yes. It's nice to see, isn't it?
I'd say he's beginning the process of letting go of that fantasy.
No, I don't think it is, Data. A laugh is one step in the rightdirection. We need to help him take a few more steps.
I'd like you to talk to him about your own fascination with humanity. Ifyou can explain to Timothy the appeal that humanity has for you, he might findit easier to become a boy again.
Yes, Captain?
Tell us again.
The ship was damaged when your arm hit the computer panel? Timothy,listen to me. The damage to your ship might have occurred at the same time yourarm touched the panel, but it was only a coincidence. This wasn't your fault.
You're not responsible for what happened to your parents, Timothy.
Timothy, perhaps you and I should go below and get out of everyone's way.
Timothy's a boy feeling a great deal of pain. But he is a boy again. Isthis difficult for you, Data?
To watch him moving away from being like you.
Mister Tarmin, are all Ullians able to read memories?
Jev?
No, not at all.
It's not easy having an overbearing parent. Believe me, I know how youfeel.
Oh, I can't read Ullians, but I do know a certain Betazoid mother who isa great deal like your father.
Deck eight.
I've learned to remind myself that my mother and I are two separateindividuals.
No. But I do keep reminding myself.
Goodnight.
Hot chocolate.
Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship.
Will, don't.
Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship.
We mustn't do this. Will, don't. Will, no!
No! No! No! Don't!
No!
It's like waking up from a nightmare and not remembering what it wasabout.
My hair. I was brushing my hair.
I don't know. Just waking up here. Why do I feel so frightened? Whathappened to me?
How long have I been here?
Three days?
What is going on here?
I want to do it, Captain. Something awful happened to me and I don't evenknow what it was.
Brushing my hair.
Yes, when I'm ready for bed.
Someone touching my hair.
No. No, I'm alone. There's no one there.
I get some hot chocolate.
I'm alone in my quarters. I'm remembering something from a few years ago.
Yes. And.
It's Will Riker. That's right. I was thinking of him.
Yes, after a poker game.
Now he's hurting me no.
I want him to stop. It's not Will. Somebody's taken his place.
No! He shouldn't be here. Why is he here? Stop! You're hurting me.
Yes.
No! Stop! You're hurting me.
It's Tarmin. It's your father.
Come in.
Hello, Jev.
There's no need. You're not responsible for what he did.
We still can.
Jev, you're upset. Would you like to talk?
You'd feel better if you did.
What? What's happening? It's happening again.
It was you. It was always you.
No!
Don't. Don't. I won't let you!
No! No!
Yes.
Why are you here? How did you know?
It's lovely I can understand why you are reluctant to leave, Mister
All of you have been selectively bred? Your DNA patterns chosen?
And obviously you do.
We will do whatever we can to help you preserve it.
Commander, if Mister Conor doesn't mind, I'd like to stay and see more ofhis colony.
You're sure my being here is not going to be disruptive?
Well, I certainly wouldn't wish to throw off your entire balance.
Seriously.
There must be other unexpected events you have to deal with. An untimelydeath, an accident.
Not at all.
I feel the same about being here. I'm something of a student of humannature, and I find this all fascinating.
I'm the ship's Counsellor.
I'd book my next vacation at your hotel, if you had one.
May I return later?
I believe some will choose to risk death rather than leave, Captain.
I'm not sure we can. It would mean abandoning their fundamental way oflife.
You don't approve of genetic engineering.
They seem to have made it succeed.
I've asked myself that question a lot during the past few days. I don'tknow. I doubt it. Nevertheless, it's what they believe in, and it won't be aneasy matter to talk them into leaving.
I find him very reasonable. Open to suggestions, thoughtful, quitedisarming. The perfect administrator.
I don't know. I hope so.
Yes.
It's hard to believe. So much loveliness here, just a few metres awayfrom such desolation.
This must sound incredibly simplistic but, can't you re-engineer all thison another planet?
A nursery rhyme?
Perhaps to prepare them for times like these.
I'm so sorry, Aaron. I wish I could do something to help.
No, a Counsellor has to maintain a discreet distance. I'd rather think ofus as friends.
Aaron.
This is wrong.
I'm still on Enterprise time. Aaron, I'm going back to the ship. I'm notgoing to see you again.
Because it's the right thing to do.
You know it as well as I do.
Yes, I'm angry. I'm angry with myself for allowing this to happen.
I could fall in love with you so easily, but we both know the end of thatstory, don't we? How would Martin feel about introducing half-Betazoid DNA intothe genetic balance?
Listen to yourself. A few days ago you wouldn't even talk to us. This ismy fault. I'm so sorry.
I have to go.
We can't do that.
Do you understand what it would do to the colony?
It would destroy them.
Computer, halt. Captain, I have to tell you something, and it isn't easyfor me because I've used very poor judgement. Actually, I've acted quiteunprofessionally.
Conor and I have had a relationship.
It should never have happened. I knew there was concern about outsideinfluences and I should have been more careful.
I did not intend to see him again.
No, I think I should come with you, but I wanted you to know before wewent down.
I wanted so much to help him, to be there for him, but the more I was.
I should have walked away as soon as I saw what was happening.
Aaron.
Hannah, let's allow Aaron and Captain Picard to discuss this. Why don'twe go for a walk?
What will you do now?
Aaron, you acted in the best interests of your people. There was no wayto avoid what happened.
Don't say that.
We'll see.
Data, chess isn't just a game of ploys and gambits. It's a game ofintuition.
Thanks, but don't think a compliment's going to get you out of our bet.
It's beautiful.
I did.
Not specifically, but there are two things that seem unusual. Thebartender is an artificial lifeform.
I don't know if this means anything, but I seem to have an ability thatthe others don't. I have a very strong sense of what other people are feelingat times it's almost
No. Just for a moment, you seemed familiar.
Not exactly. I mean, I don't know who you are, but there's somethingabout you.
With whom?
Captain, there's been a great deal of damage to our computer system.
That we get confirmation of this mission from our headquarters.
There could be thousands of lives at stake.
Thanks for your help. Come in for a minute?
It's like it belongs to someone else. Nothing feels right. This room,this ship, most of all this war we're fighting.
I suppose that's true.
That same feeling. You seem familiar. You're the only thing that does.
I don't know. It's more like remembering an emotion. Feelings that you'resomehow associated with.
Yes, they are. This entire situation is a little unnerving.
We certainly have.
It's also possible that they just want to talk to us. I think we shouldrespond.
I'm restless. Mind if I visit for a while?
Everything. Every time I think about this war, our mission, I feel asense of panic like a hand's closing around my throat.
What have you discovered?
Very impressive.
So what else has your research uncovered about William Riker?
Ode to Psyche. John Keats.
To Will, all my love, Deanna.
I don't know what to think.
Ensign.
I was just visiting. We'll talk again soon, Commander.
Data, how many people on that station?
Captain, this isn't right.
Please, sit down.
It's psychologically valid.
Well, if you're still confused tomorrow, you know where my office is.
I'm not sure we have. Someone's down there. Alive.
Maybe they've been living underground.
Your arm.
What is that?
There is someone alive here. I'm more certain of it now than ever.
They're coming. They're coming with the storm.
Where?
My skin, it's tingling.
Very glad to be here.
Captain, may I speak with you a moment in private?
I've never felt anything like it. It was as though they were calling tome.
Perhaps, for an instant. It was like their voices were being carried onthe wind.
I'm not sure, but they were calling me to the southern polar region. Ibelieve that's where we should look for the Essex.
What happened?
You couldn't wait? The Captain would have done it for me.
What deck is this?
Can you move us again?
Do you know how to deactivate this?
Everyone get down on the floor.
Yes, Bridge. He can hear you.
What are you doing now?
Good.
They will now attempt to negotiate for the safety and release of theirpeople. Interesting. Under normal circumstances, I would be counselling the
I would help him find a way to secure our trust.
Stop it!
We can discuss your wounded, but first you will move the ship.
You will
Change the ship's orbit to an inclination of eighty degrees south.
You have thirty seconds to change your heading or additional membersof your crew will require medical attention.
Five of your people have been injured.
You, Klingon, tell him.
I will release no one.
The crew values Picard's life above all others. Captain Picard, we agreeto your proposal.
Acknowledged.
Lower the force field.
Welcome, Captain. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Captain Bryce
Indeed. I know, I was there. This is my First Officer Commander Steven
Spirits? Ghosts? But you're a man who would never believe in ghosts,
Yes, of course she is. I have no wish to harm her or to harm anyone else.
We have been forced to take this action, Captain, because we need yourhelp.
Our consciousness has been trapped on this moon for two centuries. Wemust escape this torture.
I can't explain how it happened. I only know that it did. The Essex wascaught in an electromagnetic storm just as your shuttle was. Moments before wecrashed, the bridge was struck by lightning. The ship was ripped apart.
Because as I said, I knew you would not believe us. Even now, I know youdon't.
NCC One seven three. Daedalus-class starship. Crew, two hundred andtwenty nine.
Admiral Uttan Narsu, Starbase Twelve. You will find all this in Starfleetrecords.
Then you know I am correct.
No. You don't trust us. And I can't risk trusting you.
Captain Picard has every right to be curious.
I know that. I also know that he will make every effort to protect thelives of his people. Since our demands are not excessive, Captain, I hope youwill see that it will be simpler to accede than to risk further injuries.
All you need to know for now is that we want to rest. Simply, finally, torest.
Leave her alone.
Very well. We're taking you to our crash site.
That is correct.
As I told you, Captain, the ship broke up in the atmosphere, and thebridge went down here. When we reach it, you will beam what's left of ourskeletal remains on board this ship and then take them back to Earth for aproper burial. You see how simple a request this is?
I will release no one.
I wish you were truly as open-minded as you say, Picard.
Are you ready to cooperate?
We are giving you the exact coordinates of our remains on board the wreckof the Essex.
Can you do it from here?
We must not be separated.
What are the risks when we leave this room?
We will each take a hostage for protection.
Picard, you are mine.
Lower the forcefield.
What do you mean?
It will fade as we move further from this planet.
I don't need a scientific basis. Just be quiet.
Proceed.
You're quite right, Picard, it's not rest we seek. Only escape.
We were brought to this moon over five centuries ago from a star systemcalled Ux-Mal. We were separated from our bodies and left to drift in thestorms. Once we almost escaped, on board the Essex, but that ship was incapableof eluding this moon's electromagnetic storms.
It was a better approach than asking you to allow hundreds of condemnedprisoners on board.
That's correct. But now we have your ship and your bodies to carry ushome.
No! Let them go or you will all die.
I advise you, Picard, not to pass our way again.
It was as though my own consciousness were pushed to the side. I waswatching everything happen, hearing my own voice, but not being able to controlany of it.
He was intelligent, actually. Thoughtful, in a ruthless sort of way.
Alexander, I told you it's not my decision. Your father doesn't want to
I think you know that's not true.
Come here. He's been injured, and he's embarrassed. And to have anyonesee him now would make him feel worse, even if it were you.
Alexander, that Klingon stuff is very important to your father.
It's been a long day. Why don't you get ready for bed and we'll talkabout this again in the morning.
Alexander is scared, confused, hurt, all because his father is refusingto see him.
Yes I do. It's not the Klingon way, right?
All I care about at this moment is a little boy who's terrified he'sgoing to lose his father.
Maybe it's time you stopped lying here worrying about your honour, andstarted thinking about someone else, like your son.
Worf, let me help you.
Alexander, go on. It'll be all right. I'll take care of your father.
I'll make sure he reaches your parents' home safely.
You want me to raise Alexander?
I'd be honoured.
No.
Alex.
Alexander, remember what we talked about? Your father wants to do this byhimself.
All right. This hand, the game is Federation Day.
Well, the Federation was founded in Twenty One Sixty One, so, twos,sixes, and aces are wild.
Oh? Why is that?
Why, Worf?
Well I'm sure we're just as strange to them.
Good question. Worf?
Come in. Hello, Will.
Wonderful things. My mother sent me a box that belonged to one of myfather's ancestors. It was stored on Earth and just recently turned up.
No. Some of the pictures have names on, but most of them don't. I look atthese faces and I wonder who they are and if they could be related to me.
Has something happened?
Soren.
I'm glad you did.
Of course it will. All relationships are constantly changing. But we'llstill be friends, maybe better friends. You're a part of my life, and I'm apart of yours. That much will always be true.
What were the voices saying?
I sensed nothing unusual last night.
We have to get out of here now.
We have to get out of here now.
Is this what's causing our déjà vu?
Like a message in a bottle.
We have to get out of here now.
You think we sent ourselves a message?
We have to get out of here now.
Do you know Admiral Brand?
I sense a touch of hostility here, gentlemen.
If I may suggest
Please! Why not simply draw up a contract which clearly defines theduties of each family member.
No, I means you both agree to your responsibilities. And when you've donethe things that you've agreed to do, then you've earned the privilege to doingthe things that you want to do. When he's cleaned his room, for instance, thenperhaps he's earned a visit to the holodeck to fight his alien monsters.
I suggest working out an equitable system with the rules clearly spelledout. For the child and the parent. You must make a list of yourresponsibilities, too. What would you like your father to promise, Alexander?
Well then you should have no trouble with that part. Why not go back toyour quarters and talk this thing over? Decide on which points each of youwants in the contract.
One day you'll learn to be glad your father cared enough about you toinsist on rules. It may be hard to imagine right now, but eventually, mostchildren come to appreciate their parents.
On the other hand
I beg your pardon?
Mother, where did you, when did you meet this man? Who is he? I mean,marriage? When did all this happen?
Mother, if you're happy, then I'm happy for you. I only asked who he is,and where you met him. Those are not unusual questions.
Who is he?
Naturally. I didn't know you'd ever been to Kostolain. Or was he on somediplomatic mission to Betazed?
Mother, don't you think it would be a good idea if you actually met theman you're going to marry before committing to spend the rest of your life withhim?
Alexander, this is my mother.
Between father and son. A fair and balanced way to achieve a mutual senseof order.
Mother!
Mother, will you kindly stay out of this?
Mother, will you please
He didn't show up for his appointment. I assumed he must still be here.
Is he there alone?
Mother.
Mother, I'm trying to help the boy learn the value of responsibility.
Among other things, his relationship with his father. No more holodeck,
Mother.
Wedding gown? Mother, stop. You're telling me you're not going to benaked at your own wedding?
I can't believe I'm hearing this from the Heir to the Holy Rings of
Mother, I think it's time you tell me about this mysterious marriage to aman you've never met.
I am, sir.
Mother, we have to talk.
Mother, we've come for Alexander. Please, forgive the intrusion.
Mother, you're undermining every effort we're trying to make here.
Ha!
Well, sir, I'm afraid even the bride won't be present for this one.
We still have to learn how to live in the real world, Mother. All of us.
Purple omelettes?
I can see her point. Sugar with your tea?
Isabella would you like some too?
I'll bet Isabella is very pretty.
Maybe you could draw me a picture. I'd love to see what she looks like.
I think she's real for you, and that is real enough for me.
Is that so?
I hope I see you soon. Maybe we can be friends.
Yes?
Why, thank you, Isabella.
I can understand your concern, Ensign Sutter, but really you have nothingto worry about. It's a normal, healthy activity for children to engage inimaginary play.
You've been moving from starship to starship since Clara was two yearsold. Maybe Isabella provides a constant companion. She knows this is one friendshe won't have to leave behind.
Give Clara a chance. As she learns to make friends on the Enterprise,you'll probably find that she'll leave her imaginary world behind.
Hello, Clara.
Would you and Isabella like to come for a walk with me?
Clara, you haven't been on this she very long, so maybe you don't know,but Ten Forward is usually for grown-ups.
If Isabella is making you do things you know are wrong, then you musttell her it's not acceptable.
Deck thirty two. Clara, do you want me to talk to Isabella?
Isabella, it's not very nice to get Clara to do things that she isn'tsupposed to.
From now on I want you to ask a grown-up before you go to any place thatis off-limits.
What does she say?
Clara, please tell me what Isabella said.
I'm a little concerned at the turn this is taking. It seems Clara isbeginning to do inappropriate things and blaming them on Isabella.
I don't think it's too serious yet, but we should make more of an effortto get her involved with real friends her own age. The children's centre'shaving a ceramics class this afternoon. Why don't I take Clara?
I'll see if there's any room left in the class. In the meantime, I thinkyou should make yourself more available to Clara. Let her know she doesn't haveto rely on Isabella when she needs someone to talk to.
Counsellor Troi.
Hello, Clara.
I came to ask if you'd like to go to a ceramics class.
No. Let's do something with Isabella another day.
Alexander, I thought you might like a partner. This is Clara Sutter.
Go ahead.
Clara, would you like some clay of your own?
Hot chocolate. Computer, I need my appointment schedule for next week.
Excuse me?
I'm sure the cake is fine. I've just been thinking.
I'm wondering if I'm doing the right thing.
Well, I know the best thing to do is to gradually wean her away from herfantasy, and she did make some new friends today and had a good time.
But I can't help feeling that I'm taking something from her. Somethingprecious. A part of her childhood she'll never have again.
You have an imaginary friend?
You still talk to it?
Go ahead, Ensign.
I'm on my way.
Clara, your father tells me Isabella has been saying some very bad thingsto you. What did she say?
Who's going to come and kill everyone?
Did she say why? I know you're very frightened. Sometimes what we imaginecan be just as scary as something real. But I promise you, there is no way
You can see her?
If I go with you and hold your hand, will you go into your room?
We'll make sure Isabella isn't anywhere around, okay? Come on.
Do you see anybody?
Let's look under the bed. Is she there? Okay, where else?
Is she behind here?
Maybe Isabella's gone home.
Let's see. Anything here? Maybe Isabella knows that you've got newfriends now. In fact, I'll bet she won't be coming around as much anymore.
Okay. Anybody in here? Looks pretty empty to me.
She was eleven, maybe twelve, with blonde hair. Clara.
It's beautiful, but frightening at the same time.
Captain, I just wondered if there's anything you wanted to talk about.
I would have thought having a Borg on the ship would stir some feelings.
Sometimes even when a victim has dealt with his assault there areresidual effects of the event that linger. You were treated violently by the
I see. Well, if at any point you want to talk more.
Not from us, but certainly from them. They've attacked us in everyencounter.
Where did you get this?
I heard about Data.
It's having an unusually traumatic effect on everyone.
If you don't want to talk about it, it's okay.
Angry.
Maybe because it reminds us of our own mortality.
Have you ever heard Data define friendship?
How did he put it? As I experience certain sensory input patterns, mymental pathways become accustomed to them. The inputs eventually areanticipated and even missed when absent.
He's used to us, and we're used to him. It's like finding out someone youlove has a terminal illness and
Personal inquiry? No, go right ahead.
 Yes.
You're right, Data. And it's not a very nice thing to do.
There's life here. A child. An old woman. Dozens more. Hundreds.
My God, Will. They're human.
Data!
Look at what we have so far. Evidence that these aliens have beentravelling back in time to Earth.
No. There is no life here. What I have sensed is more like an imprint. Anecho of the last moment of life. Human life. They all died in terror
Look at what he's carrying.
If the aliens have been killing people there, well, someone might havenoticed something unusual.
This man was complaining about a strange doctor and nurse who visitedthat patient. Perhaps they're still in the hospital.
The ophidian the aliens were carrying.
Mrs. Carmichael.
Mrs. Carmichael, thank goodness you're here.
Your future affairs?
Commander, perhaps I could handle that. I'd be happy to take Mister
If you must have one, I'm sure we can replicate it for you.
I wouldn't know.
I think what we've gained far outweighs anything that might have beenlost.
Is that what you see here?
Deck thirty six.
He's one of the thousands of species that we've encountered. We live in apeaceful Federation with most of them. The people you see are here by choice.
Poverty was eliminated on Earth a long time ago, and a lot of otherthings disappeared with it. Hopelessness, despair, cruelty.
That's right.
Any luck?
He's right, Will.
Reg, you were faced with a difficult transport. Anyone would have beenapprehensive in that situation.
I'm sure they understand. As soon as you feel up to it, you can probablystill join them.
Reg, is there something you're not telling me?
Why have you kept it a secret?
I doubt that.
It's not crazy about it. You are being taken apart molecule by molecule.
Well, you might first try a relaxation technique, like plexing.
Yes, it's a Betazoid method. The next time you feel nervous abouttransporting, you stimulate a neural pressure point, like this.
There's a nerve cluster just behind the carotid artery. It stimulates thepart of the brain that releases natural endorphins.
Here. There.
There's no need to rush.
I suppose I did.
Go ahead, Commander.
Lieutenant Barclay, I've been calling you, why haven't you responded?
I can see that. Where are you going?
Mister Barclay.
Commander La Forge said you seemed a little nervous this morning.
He also mentioned that you said you saw something in the transporterbeam.
You don't sound very convinced of that.
Mister Barclay, you're exhausted and highly agitated, and I cannot allowa member of this crew to endanger himself and others. I think
I think it would be in your best interest to take a leave of absence.
Reg, why did you wait so long to tell anybody about your arm?
Yes, Captain.
I'm Counsellor Deanna Troi.
Of course. Chief. I'll take you to Captain Picard.
The skills are demanding. You're very disciplined.
Yes, I do. Only sometimes my body has a problem conforming to my mind'swishes.
I would imagine that your self-discipline helps you in your work.
You're going to need all your patience at Seronia. I can't imagine howyou'll get the two sides talking to each other.
I thought Lumerians were empathic.
Curiosity. What I sense from you is very unusual. Calmness, serenity,tranquillity. You seem to embody the very qualities that you hope to draw outin others.
Several times with Captain Picard. There have been instances when havingan empath along has been helpful.
If the Captain authorises it, of course I will.
What?
I'd better go.
Come in.
Does it have to be today?
It might.
I've just had a disturbing encounter with Alkar's mother. She frightensme, Will. The feelings I sense from her are malevolent. They're out ofproportion. They're evil.
You're right. Okay, let's get through these evaluations, and when they'redone I'm going to reward myself with two ice cream sundaes.
Alkar, is there anything I can do?
I'll be glad to help.
An end to grief.
An end to pain.
Strength comes from love.
And courage from wisdom.
Computer today's appointment calendar.
Cancel them. Cancel everything till after lunch.
Hello.
I thought you might like some company, if you're not too busy.
No. I'd like you to talk to me.
About you. I don't know anything about you. And I'd like to.
What kind of woman do you find attractive? Do you find me attractive?
And when you find someone attractive, what do you usually do?
Is it really so complicated?
Well, perhaps you over think things.
Yes?
Will.
Of course. Come in.
If there's anything else I need, I know where to find you.
Are you bothered by his being here?
Good. Because it's really none of your business.
Why do I think you're upset?
Will, remember who you're talking to. You are bothered, I can tell.
I will.
What makes you think that?
Give me an example of what you mean.
Do you know of any reason why he might do that?
Well, maybe he's just tired of hearing you complain.
I know I'm certainly tired of it. How do you think it feels to sit andlisten to someone whine about themselves all the time?
This isn't Starfleet Academy. You're not going to be coddled. If youcan't take it here, then you might think about a transport ship. There's a lotless pressure there.
If you aren't up to it then you don't deserve to be here. Isn't thatright?
So you'd better take a hold of yourself, or be prepared for a transfer.
Glad I could help.
Am I interrupting?
You want him. I can tell. But you have nothing to give him.
And you. You're envious of him. You pretend to support him, but secretlyyou want him to fail.
I won't. I want to be here, with you.
Imzadi, do you still care about me?
Don't you think I'm attractive?
Oh, it is. You want me, don't you?
I need you.
Please!
Come in.
You said you'd take me with you.
You told me I'd be helpful. You needed me.
Then take me. Don't leave me here. Is Liva going with you?
She wants to take you away from me.
I won't let her have you! I'll stop her!  I will go with you. Take me with you. Please, Alkar. Don't leave me.
Will you take me with you?
I won't let her have you
Don't try and stop me! No, no, let go!
Will.
Then the flow of negative emotions and feelings were reversed back to himsomehow.
And Liva?
Looking back on the past few days, it's as though I'm looking at aholodeck projection of someone else.
Thanks for sticking by me.
Goodbye.
Was it something about the console itself?
You're the third person today who's come to me with something like this.
No, they couldn't explain it any more than you could. You know, at thispoint I'm not willing to say it's coincidence.
Talking about it would help you understand your response. I'm going tofind out if anyone else on the ship has had these kind of experiences.
Will, you told me you had an unusual experience when you sat down at theconsole. Why don't you describe it?
Have you dreamt about scissors recently?
It seems you've all had a similar experience. Is there anything else youremember besides a table?
Well, you all remember a table, so let's start with that. Computer showme a table.
Can you be more specific about the table? You mentioned it was smooth andcold. Can you remember what shape it was?
Computer, show me a rectangular conference table.
Computer, make this a metal table.
Was there anything else in the room? Furniture? Chairs? A door? Otherpeople?
Computer, lower the surrounding light level.
You said you were uneasy when you sat down at the conn. position.
A restraint of some kind?
It was holding you down?
Computer, create a restraining arm attached to the right side of thetable, at the mid-point.
Was it like that?
All right, you were lying on the table. You had a bright light shining inyour eyes. Were there any smells in the room? Were there any sounds?
If they send him back. Ensign Rager still hasn't been returned.
Amanda's a Q?
What happened to Amanda's parents?
What would have happened if she couldn't stop it?
Well, Amanda, how are you feeling about all this now? It must beoverwhelming.
Hello, Will.
We have to tell her.
Maybe she can protect herself. After all, she has a great deal of power.
Their individual intelligence and their behavioural responses are exactlythe same as they were before the accident.
I came to see how you're doing.
I would say the people that know you and have worked with you, will beable to make the adjustment eventually. But there are some people who wouldfind it difficult to accept a twelve year old captain.
You're still a Starfleet captain. I'm sure there are other assignmentsyou could be given in the interim.
You could return to the Academy. Take another degree. Brush up on your
Then perhaps you could spend the time exploring another interests.
Not permanently, just a sabbatical. You could spend a few years crawlingthrough caves and digging up artefacts, and still have enough time to becomethe youngest admiral in Starfleet history.
In a way, you're very lucky. You might have a chance do what most peoplecan only dream about. Have a second childhood without the pain of growing upagain.
I suggest you find a new line of work.
 He's right. You're no match for the Hollanders.
Hold on. I was just passing through town, saw a little trouble, thought
Durango. I'm called Durango.
For a price. Five hundred dollars.
My father used to read me stories from the Ancient West when I was alittle girl. I must admit, I always wanted to play the part of the mysteriousstranger.
Sounds delicious.
I'll watch him for you, Sheriff. You two go have a good time.
What's wrong?
My God, you've been shot! Computer, end programme. Troi to Captain
Data?
Data?
Why is the computer creating characters that look like Data?
Worf, wait. We have to remember, even though the holodeck safeguards maybe off, this is still a programme. If we can just get to the end of this storythe way it was designed to play out, the programme will automaticallyterminate.
Worf, we've got another problem. I saw Eli playing cards. He wasshuffling the way Data does when he plays poker. He doesn't just look like
In every Western I've ever read, the villains always break their word. hecan't be trusted.
They're not concerned with honour, Worf. This is the Ancient West.
Understood. What about Alexander?
How long will the field last?
Let's hope it's enough.
Don't even think about it.
I don't understand this. The story should be over. What's left?
Doctor, why is it so difficult for you to accept the fact that theexocomp could be alive? After all, you're talking to a living machine rightnow.
Will we?
Sore?
May I speak with you, Captain?
Definitely an elephant.
I'd be happy to. But first, I'd like to talk about how the change incommand is affecting the crew.
I wouldn't call it resistance. More like uncertainty. Most of them hadserved under Captain Picard for several years. They knew him, they knew what heexpected. Now they're being asked to adjust to a new captain and a new way ofdoing things, and they're uncertain how to react.
And to you. Perhaps everyone just needs some time. Time for you to get toknow and trust the crew, and time for them to understand how you want thingsdone.
Of course, sir.
Captain, I think there's been a slight miscommunication. Did you want tomeet with Gul Lemec in here?
I see.
So you're trying to establish a dominant position by making him wait foryou. The trouble with wolves is that sometimes the fight for dominance, one ofthem ends up dead.
Yes, sir.
No, he's not.
Captain, please, we should listen to them.
What are you going to do?
Will! Captain, we're all concerned about
I read your report.
You didn't say it?
I understand his frustration. We created him and we created her to be thewoman he loves. Surely we have some responsibility to them.
You mean he never knew he hadn't left the holodeck?
In a sense, you did give Moriarty what he wanted.
Concerned?
Computer, lights. Computer, turn on the lights.
Who are you?
Where am I?
Warbird? I was at the neuropsychology seminar at Bokara Six. The lastthing I remember was returning to my quarters. I was attacked. I felt ahypospray.
Oh, God. My head's still spinning.
Why have you brought me here?
Am I a prisoner?
The Kaleb sector?
Heading one oh two mark four. And she'll take orders from me?
I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on.
How do I know I won't be killed anyway?
No.
The mission is one of utmost secrecy. I could not risk bringing guards.
I cannot reveal that.
I am under orders.
Several months.
I don't know what you mean.
I'm sure it is safe, otherwise it would not have been loaded.
That cargo is the property of the Tal Shiar. You will not touch it.
Mine. And if you do not wish to undergo another personal experience withthe Tal Shiar, I suggest you not question me again. Now, proceed on coursebearing one oh two mark four to the Kaleb sector.
Because those are your orders.
You may wait outside. Make certain we're not disturbed.
They're terrified of me.
I think it's time you told me what this is all about.
What's in it?
He's alive. In stasis. Who is it?
M'ret? He's one of the highest ranking members of the Romulan government.
Why is he doing this?
You're part of Ambassador Spock's underground movement.
You've given me the identity of a Tal Shiar officer. Is there a real
Why me? You could have found a Romulan to play this role.
Why?
What is your plan?
The Corvallens are mercenaries. Do they know what's in these containers?
Very well.
I'll go to my quarters. I think it would be best if I stayed out of theway of the Commander.
Commander.
I've smelled better viinerine on prison ships.
The Academy.
I know of him.
Yes.
Which aspects are you referring to?
Do you have a point to make, Commander? If so, it has escaped me.
Your opinion of the Tal Shiar quite clear, Commander.
We ensure the loyalty of the people. Do you believe the Empire would bebetter off without our protection?
Clearly, your father was a traitor.
I don't need your devotion, Commander. Just your obedience.
Hail them.
 He's lying. They have no intention of keeping their word.
Yes.
How many people were on that ship?
 This gives me the right.
I have been given broad discretionary powers. Subcommander N'Vek actedunder my authority, the authority of the Tal Shiar. I assure you this actionwill not be questioned.
Do what you feel is necessary. In the meantime, we must protectourselves. Engage the cloaking device.
Hold position and wait.
Our plan? What about the people on that freighter? Why did you fire?
Eighteen people lost their lives.
I'm sorry but I can't dismiss those lives so easily.
You don't have a plan anymore.
In a Romulan ship?
We'll never get through the gravitic sensor nets.
Do you really think this has a chance of succeeding?
You will plot a course for the Draken System.
Draken Four was the freighter's destination. I ordered the freighterdestroyed because I recognised the Captain, a known Federation spy. Now we mustdeliver the cargo ourselves.
I do not intend to explain myself to you. You will set a course.
That is not a problem.
We will be cloaked.
The Tal Shiar has obtained access codes for the sensor nets. I willprovide them if necessary.
Your cowardice does not befit a Romulan soldier.
One moment, Commander. We should hold our position until the Enterprisehas left the area. We cannot risk detection.
We have not established their intentions.
You will keep me informed of our progress.
We have to get a message to the Enterprise.
It's the perfect opportunity. The Enterprise is nearby. If we cancommunicate with them, they might be able to help us.
Is there anything you can do to the ship or to the cloaking device thatwould let the Enterprise track us?
What we want is to get the dissidents to safety. Now answer the question.
Yes, you will.
We're not playing it your way any more, N'Vek. I've been kidnapped,surgically altered, put in danger I've gone along with all your plans. Now youare going to listen to me. You find a way to let the Enterprise track us, or Iwill go to Toreth and tell her I've discovered you're a traitor. I'll order youejected into space. Is that clear, Subcommander?
Good. Do it.
If it's the best we can do, we have to try it.
It's a risk we have to take. You're the one who outlined the stakes tome, N'Vek. Are you getting squeamish now, just because things are getting alittle more dangerous?
What are you doing?
We cannot risk an engagement here.
What do you intend to do?
Disregard that order.
I do not authorise this attack. You will cease battle operationsimmediately.
How typical of the military to resort to brute force when discretion isrequired.
Yes, they can track us. So if we attack them, they will return fire. Andsince we have no shields when we're cloaked, they will destroy us.
You are not fit to command. Step down. Step down or I will have youremoved.
If any one of you defies the Tal Shiar, you will not bear the punishmentalone. Your families, all of them, will be there beside you. I am now Commanderof this ship. You will take orders from me and no one else. Remove Commander
Remove her weapon.
Now, Commander. Watch and learn. In order to defeat your enemy, you mustfirst understand them. The Federation wishes to avoid war at all cost. So Ishall offer them a diplomatic solution, get them to lower their shields andthen destroy them.
I am Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar.
How can we be of help?
A regrettable incident, Captain. The freighter was firedupon by the former Commander of this vessel. I have now taken control, and Iassure you there will be no more attacks.
Captain, we do not want to exaggerate this incident. Youand I can discuss it calmly. We can diffuse it before it becomes inflated.
I will come onto your ship. Please, lower your shieldsand prepare to beam me aboard.
Thank you.
Activate forward disruptor array. Fire when ready.
Yes.
Just right. Thank you.
The thanks should go to N'Vek. He sacrificed himself to save them, andme.
Maybe I should go.
Well, er, your performance records have always been good. You'rethorough, dedicated.
I really don't think this is the place to be discussing this.
Hasn't that been the problem all along? Throughout your career you've hadlofty goals, but you've never been willing to do what's necessary to attainthem.
We should talk about this later.
Did the table do something wrong?
I'm glad you weren't that hard on Ensign Lopez.
Would you like to talk about what's bothering you or would you like tobreak some more furniture?
Your father?
My god. Could it be true?
So, you're willing to ignore the possibility because you're concernedabout dishonour?
If you're so sure about that, why are you still so upset? Worf, you can'tdeny the possibility just because you don't want it to be true. If you want totalk about this, you know where to find me.
So, you're willing to ignore the possibility because you're concernedabout dishonour?
Captain. We're still behind schedule on decks seven and eight. Shall Itell Arkaria Base there'll be a delay?
Right.
Hello.
Er, well.
Your saddle?
I see.
Of course.
They're still at it.
They haven't tried to communicate with the outside.
Orton is not as calm as he looks. He's very agitated and nervous, as ifsomething's gone wrong.
 They need a distraction.
Just a few seconds.
I don't think Orton's in a talking mood, Will.
I thought you were just going to talk to him.
I'm sorry, Captain. I don't know what could have happened to it.
It's perfectly normal.
Thank you.
You would like my opinion about you and Commander Daren.
In a way that pleases people who care about your happiness, yes, it is.
And you think that your feelings toward Nella could change the way youfunction as Captain.
That's true. But cutting yourself off from your feelings can carryconsequences that are just as serious.
Captain, are you asking my permission?
Yes.
Captain, I'm going for a walk in the arboretum. I wouldn't mind somecompany.
How's it going?
I meant, how's it going with you?
Captain, you can't start thinking like that. You didn't abandon him. Youchose not to abandon a life-long career. It was the right decision, and in noway responsible for his death.
I know how much the Professor meant to you and how much you want to findout what happened, but staring at these numbers isn't going to bring him back.
Captain.
And that was disturbing to you.
Frame of Mind?
You're probably drawing on feelings that you're not used to expressing.
Sometimes it's healthy to explore the darker sides of the psyche. Jungcalled it owning your own shadow. This could be a sign that you're a realactor. This is becoming more than just a role to you.
Don't be afraid of your darker side. Have fun with it.
I'm not sure. Do you want me to check the personnel logs?
I'm looking forward to it. Break a leg.
A little shaken but all right.
It's nothing to be embarrassed about. We're your friends. We all know thestress you've been under. I'm sure everyone understands perfectly.
Well, maybe not everyone understands.
I want you to try a few relaxation techniques as well. Remember the ones
What's wrong?
Will, I want you to get some sleep. I'll see you tomorrow.
Terrified.
I was in a dark place. Cold. Frightened. Someone was there.
I felt threatened by them. Trapped
I felt pain.
I began to panic.
I felt threatened.
I panicked.
Don't believe this, Will. None of it's real. You're still with us on the
Listen to me, Will. In all the years we've known each other, have I everlied to you?
Your mind must have created a defence mechanism that helped you resistthe neurosomatic process. Your unconscious fastened on to elements of your reallife in an attempt to keep you grounded, to keep you sane.
Captain, I'm concerned about Beverly. I've tried several times to talk toher, but she's been avoiding me.
This entire experience has been
Night Bird.
Night Bird!
Will's been trying to get this piece right for ten years now. He's nevermade it through the solo.
Here it comes.
I'll talk to him.
Hello, Will.
Will.
We need to talk.
No. Commander Riker and I are friends. Close friends, but nothing more.
It was the day before you started your tour on the Potemkin.
We never did.
No, what I mean is, Commander Riker and I never did. You see, he earned apromotion very quickly.
He chose to make his career a priority. There wasn't much time foranything else. We kept in touch but we didn't see each other again until wewere both posted to the Enterprise two years later. By then our feelings foreach other had changed. We've served together for six years. Things never wentback to the way they used to be.
I know this isn't what you were hoping for, but that doesn't mean youcan't make a future for yourself.
Captain Picard wanted me to find out if you'd be willing to help usretrieve the station's database.
Do you feel up to it?
Good. I'll tell the Captain. Well, I have to go.
Goodnight, Will.
Computer, valerian root tea, hot.
 Meet me in Transporter room three at nineteen hundred hours.
 It pulses unendingly all through the night. Seek out thecrystal that powers our flight.
No, thank you.
 What the future holds no one can know, But forward we look andforward we go.
I remember. Where did you get this?
You made this?
It's lovely. Thank you.
So, how does it feel being with people again?
I can imagine.
Is that what you've decided to do?
It's good you don't feel set back.
I can understand that.
I'm sure I looked terrible with my eyes all red and swollen from crying.
The other day, when I told you about how Commander Riker and I didn'tmeet on Risa, what I didn't say was how disappointed I was.
I started to hear from him less and less. I knew his career was takinghim away from me but I didn't want to believe it was over. I spent a lot oftime thinking about him. Wondering where he was, what he was doing. Sometimes
We stayed in Ten Forward talking for hours.
He walked me to my quarters.
Beverly!
You know it's been over between Will and me for a long time.
It's really hard for me to separate my feelings for them.
I knew you'd encourage me.
 Beverly.
Klingon exercises, actually. Lieutenant Worf teaches a class.
You just did the KoH-man-ara.
Hello, Will.
We've both had relationships with other people. This is different. Ididn't know how you'd feel about it.
This must be very strange for you.
Me too.
Will, I know you and he have had some problems.
Come in.
When would you leave?
I see.
You said those exact words to me before you went to serve on the
But if you hadn't been, what would have happened between us?
I don't know if I can believe that. It took me a long time to get overwhat happened between Commander Riker and me. I don't know that I want to putmyself in that position again.
It's not just that. I've worked hard to make a life for myself on the
I know.
No. No. I just don't know if I'm ready to give up my life here. Maybe weboth need some time.
I hear the Gandhi's going on a terraforming mission to the Lagana Sector.
I won't be joining you.
I'm just not ready to give up my life here. Not yet.
Your middle name.
I was just leaving the reception when this Ktarian walks up to me andsays,  hello, Diane. I understand you're an empath. I'm a verysensitive man myself. I'm doing a thesis on interspecies mating rituals. Wouldyou care to join me in some empirical research?
How did you know?
Absolutely not.
To be honest, I was bored. I spent most of my time at Professor Wagner'sphylobiology seminar. I thought the idea of the seminar was that we would allparticipate, bring different points of views to the discussion. He gathered twohundred scientists from all over the Federation, and all he did was put us tosleep.
No, thank you, Data.
Really? What was it like?
Captain? Data?
I'm not sure.
I don't know. Four, maybe five seconds. You just stopped and then startedagain. I can't explain it.
Well, Geordi was talking about what it felt like to touch the plasmafield and you were taking a sip of tea.
Not a thing. I was empathically aware of you right up to the moment youfroze, and then it all stopped.  The past few days have beenexhausting. Maybe it was my imagination. There were moments in that lecturehall when I thought time was standing still there, too.
What happened?
No. One second I was talking to you, and the next you were all standingaround me.
What is it?
What happened?
The cells are metabolising at an incredible speed. Almost fifty timesnormal.
Your metabolism's stabilising.
My God.
It looks like the Enterprise has been damaged. There, on the portnacelle.
The Romulans could've decloaked before the Enterprise had a chance torespond.
How long will the fields last?
I got a little dizzy for a second.
Maybe we could do something to help Will.
Maybe we can go around them.
Captain.
I know. I just saw them.
Captain, there's something I have to tell you. Doctor Crusher has beenhit by a disruptor blast at point blank range. If time returns to normal Idon't see how she can survive.
Why didn't we notice it before?
Do we know what caused the breach?
Why would we be sending them power?
Captain, are you all right?
Troi to La Forge. Get us out of here now!
Captain, it might be better if you stayed here this time and gaveyourself a chance to recover.
Yes, Captain.
Geordi, there should be a power utilisation monitor over there. Data.
Is that why Romulans were being transported to the Enterprise?
Whatever happened, this is beginning to look less and less like a Romulanattack.
That's impossible. The Romulans use an artificial quantum singularity astheir power source. Once it's activated, it can't be shut down.
What are these dark spots?
I thought I heard one of the Engineers say something about a powertransfer. Something about an energy feedback.
He's in neural shock,
There isn't time. He's dying.
At least this way, he'll be alive in the other time frame. We might havea chance to save him later. Is the Romulan still alive?
Captain?
Why are you here?
Artificial gravity well? Do you mean the Romulan engine core?
That's what deactivated the Warbird's engine core. So the Romulans sentout a distress call.
We might be able to run time back to a point before the warp core breachoccurred and then find a way to prevent the power transfer. And then when timegoes forward
Ready, Captain.
Step back, now.
The only Borg who had a name was Hugh. And we gave it to him.
Like what?
What happened?
I'm curious. Why are you ignoring the one emotion you've alreadyexperienced? Why aren't you trying to make yourself angry again?
Data, feelings aren't positive and negative, they simply exist. It's whatwe do with those feelings that becomes good or bad. For example, feeling angryabout an injustice could lead someone to take a positive action to correct it.
Those are very strong emotions, and you're right, very little good cancome from them. But I don't think that an exploration of anger need necessarilylead to hatred or malice.
We've served together for a long time and I think I've come to know youpretty well. I have to believe if you ever reach your goal of becoming human,you won't become a bad one.
When exactly did you feel this other emotion?
If you had to give this feeling a name, what would you call it?
Captain. I think I've found something.
This seems to be some kind of meeting place.
That's not Data.
The only Borg who had a name was Hugh.
Data, I can sense feelings in you.
Are you saying that you caused them to become individuals?
Data, all I'm sensing from you is anger and hatred. Have you felt anyother emotions?
But the only emotions Data seems to feel are negative.
I think it's worth a try.
Help me!
He tried to escape. The force field sent him into neural shock. If hedies, Lore will blame you.
Geordi, are you in pain?
I'll watch the door.
How are we going to know whether the pulse reboots Data's ethicalprogramme?
Won't he realise something's happened to him?
Ambassador, it's an honour to meet you. Would you like to see yourquarters before we attend the reception?
So first thing tomorrow, I thought I'd take you on a tour of theoperational centres and the residential decks of the ship. Then we could spendsome time discussing the cultural underpinnings of your society.
Excuse me?
Oh, well, actually, I was waiting until we got to the desserts.
It's something we eat after the main course. It's usually very sweet,it's usually very bad for you. We eat it purely for pleasure. If you ask me,it's the best part of any meal.
Oh, well, let me introduce you to some of my favourites. This is peachcobbler with whipped cream. Tarvokian powder cake. And this is my favourite.
Delicious?
Ambassador, I think we're going to get along very well. Shall we?
This deck is devoted mainly to stellar cartography, biological research,and astrophysics. We have over a thousand people on board
No, thank you. I'm still recovering from all those desserts last night.
I'm sure.
Yum. Next we're going to go to deck eight, which is interesting becauseit's not really finished. It's sort of a multi-purpose deck. Sometimes when weneed an extra lab or. Ambassador?
It's a child.
Children are our offspring. They're our young. They grow into adults overa period of many years. They grow into beings like us.
Ambassador, I'm curious. Now does your species procreate?
I see.
That sounds like a wonderful idea. Come on, Eric.
Ambassador Loquel's quite pleasant. I will admit though, he's a littleunusual.
He seems preoccupied with recreation. I've spent more time in Ten Forwardin the last two days than I have in the past two months. And he's obsessed withfood. Especially chocolate.
To be honest, he's testing even my limits.
Worf, you've been very patient with Ambassador Byleth, and that's good.
I'm in for twenty.
After the past few days, I could use something a little bland. Goodbye,
What's your mother like, Geordi?
That's not what I asked.
When was the last time you saw her?
You didn't think it would be your last chance to see her.
I want to suggest something. Call it a theory, all right?
You're worried about the disappearance of your mother, guilty that youdidn't see her when you had the chance, so you're unwilling to consider thatshe might be dead. Your need to believe she's alive is so strong that itmanifests itself as a physical image.
No. Because that would be the end of your fantasy. You'd know it wasn'ttrue. The more involved and complicated and unending your story is, the longeryou can believe your mother's still alive.
We had business dealings. He owes me money.
Maybe we can discuss that possibility. But first, I have to find him,collect the money I'm owed.
If I don't find him, I'm going to have to move on. Are you sure youhaven't seen him?
You're lying.
He's telling the truth.
How are you doing?
The crew's pretty shaken up. I'm arranging a memorial. I think you shouldbe the one to deliver the eulogy.
I know it's not going to be easy, but I think it's important that we faceup to what's happened. You're in command now. The crew's looking to you forguidance.
A memorial service helps to give everyone a sense of completion. Helpsthem begin the healing process.
Will.
I know you're angry.
That's pretty selfish of you. Do you think you're the only one in pain?
There must be some way we can track it.
That doesn't make any sense. He knows those codes would have been changedas soon as he was captured.
Will must've done something to their weapons.
I've gone over every word, every inflection, every facial response, and Istill can't find any kind of code or hidden message.
I'll keep trying.
It might be the message we've been looking for.
He may have been curt, but he was also very worried and even a littlescared.
Health and safety inspections?
I'm sure the health and safety inspection won't last much longer. And inthe meantime, I'm really glad that we have this opportunity to get to know you.
Yes.
He's all right. He's only stunned.
Hello, Data.
What are you doing?
I understand you've had some interesting dreams recently. Geordi wasworried about you and he wanted me to check in and see how you were doing.
Because of the nightmares?
Data, you shouldn't be afraid of dark imagery in your dreams. It's anatural expression of your unconscious, if you have an unconscious. I'm notreally sure how your positronic brain works but if it's anything like ours,then there's part of you that's trying to express itself through your dreamstate. And I think you should allow yourself to experience it. As Sigmund Freudsaid, dreams are the royal road to the knowledge of the mind.
Let me know how it goes. Goodnight, Data.
Please, don't hurt me, Data.
No! Don't! No! No! Data!
Data! Data!
We've been trying to wake you up for the last five minutes.
Data, if you were one of my human patients, I might be concerned rightnow. I'd say you had a waking dream or an hallucination. But you're not human.
Data, even Freud said, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. But the bottomline is, I think you're developing an almost obsessive interest in your owninner workings. I'd almost call it the beginnings of a neurosis.
Why not? You've eliminated all the technical explanations. And it makessense that as your neural net becomes more complex, more human, that you mightexperience the same kind of psychological complexities as a human.
Data, you must be the first person who's come into my office and beenexcited at the prospect of a new neurosis. But yes, I do think it's possible,and I'd like to start counselling you on a regular basis.
No, we'll start weekly. And as a first step, I'd like you to shut downyour dream programme until our next session, just to be on the safe side. Giveyourself a chance to reflect on this experience.
And Data? Next time, see me before you see Sigmund.
Deck thirty six.
Hello, Data. Are you all right?
What are you doing?
No!
 Data.
Data.
What is it?
Data, don't worry about it. Geordi explained everything to me. It wasn'tyour fault. But somehow I thought turnabout would be fair play, so I made us alittle something to snack on.
Data, sometimes a cake is just a cake.
Sorry I'm late. I lost track of the time.
Hello. Pleased to meet you.
Well, Maques, what do you think of the Enterprise?
I'm glad you think so.
You've learned a great deal in a very short time. I'm sure it won't belong before your words do justice to your thoughts.
Need?
Why did you do that, Mother? You embarrassed both of us.
Mother, don't start.
Deck eight.
Mother, stop it.
Are you coming?
What's wrong?
Nothing's going to happen to me.
My first appointment isn't for a few minutes. Why don't we talk for awhile?
Are you sure?
Maques.
You don't have to.
It wasn't your fault. Please.  My mother misled you.
Yes?
You mean you've never had telepathy with someone who wasn't Cairn?
In what way?
Dark?
I'm not sure. Have you ask my mother about this?
Of course. You said among the Cairn, nothing is hidden. We value honesty,but we don't always share everything we're thinking and feeling.
Yes.
For us, yes.
It is our way.
I'm glad you stopped by.
I was all set for another round of arguing when all of a sudden she justfell apart.
It's more than that. I'm been sensing very erratic emotions from her.
Mother!
That's enough!
You're coming with me.
It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy.
Maybe I can help with the Cairn.
Then I won't use telepathy. We'll work verbally.
No, you'll work verbally too. The point is for you to get some rest,mother. Besides, it'll do them good to have to figure things out with words.
This is the ship's arboretum.
Very good, Hedril. This is where people come to relax, enjoy themselvesin a natural setting.
Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose. It's an old earth poem by
Poetry is an art form that uses words, put together in new and unexpectedways, sometimes in rhyme. Milton was speculating that in Heaven, roses wouldn'thave thorns.
Oh. Er, Heaven is. Well, it's, how can I put it?
Mother, you're supposed to be avoiding telepathy.
You don't look well.
Don't worry she'll be fine. This is something I think you'll findinteresting. It's a jewel plant from Folnar Three. The plant secretes a resinwhich is collected within the blossom. By the time the bloom has faded, theresin has hardened into a rare and beautiful gem.
Mother!
Mother? Troi to Sickbay. Medical emergency in the arboretum.
I don't understand. She was fine just yesterday.
The paracortex is the Betazoid telepathic lobe. She communicated with
What thoughts? Take your time.
I don't understand.
It's all right. I'm fine. He was just trying to communicate with metelepathically.
I'm not sure.
He communicated so much to me that at first it was just a jumble ofimages.
I think so. During his telepathic contact with my mother, Maques sensedwhat he calls a dark place. He tried to tell me about it before, in my office,and I misunderstood. I thought he was talking about thoughts my mother waskeeping private, but what he meant was that there was something happening inher met conscious mind.
It's a part of the Betazoid psyche. It's a kind of filtering mechanismthat protects us from psychic trauma.
He feels that whatever is wrong with her is centred there. If he's rightit may mean that she's suffered some kind of trauma that her metaconscious justcan't tolerate.
No. Nothing.
I'd like to stay here with her. I'm going to try to contact hertelepathically.
Mother can you hear me? Please come back to me. Please.
Mother?
How? How can I help you?
Tell me, mother. Please.
Computer, lights!
What are you doing?
How? What were you trying to do?
Yes?
Tell me telepathically.
Maques believes my mother's psyche has collapsed in on itself. That forsome reason, she has retreated into her metaconscious mind.
Yes. He was able to access images being generated by her metaconscious,but he couldn't make any sense of them.
He saw faces he didn't recognize, events he couldn't interpret.
Maques feels he can provide a telepathic bridge that will allow me toaccess my mother's metaconscious. If he can, I might be able to find out whathappened to her.
I'm not sure. But I do know that there's a part of her that wants to behelped. When I tried to contact her telepathically, I heard a voice calling outto me.
There's no way to know. I'd like to try.
I understand.
Mother?
Captain?
Are you talking to me from Sickbay?
Why don't you ask Maques to do it?
You're not Captain Picard.
This isn't real. None of this is real.
Daddy?
Don't do this.
You're not my father. You're part of my mother's mind. What is thisplace?
Did I live here?
I don't remember these toys.
I do remember. I always felt safe when you sang to me.
Down in the valley.
No, you're just trying to keep me here. Keep me from finding something.
I have to help her.
She called out to me. She does want me to help.
Goodbye, Daddy.
Hedril.
Mother.
No!
Hedril, I asked your father to bring you here because I wanted to talk toyou about something. You know that Lwaxana's sick, don't you?
No, not at all. But I believe that she's been thinking about you. Do youknow why?
Why do you say that?
Do you have any idea why Hedril would make my mother sad?
Well, thank you for coming to talk to us. I'll see you later, all right?
Thank you, Hedril. So do I.
I just don't understand how she fits in to all this.
I don't think so. My mother never mentioned her.
Yes, she does. I'll contact Mister Homn on Betazed and ask him totransmit a copy as soon as possible. There may be some clues there.
That's right. A child might represent vulnerability. Hedril may depictsome fragile part of my mother.
Yes. You, the wolf, my father. It was though she were summoning all herdefences to keep me away. But keep me away from what? What is she protecting?
Come in.
Hello, Captain.
No, nothing. I've gone through all her belongings, read her journal fromthe last five years, and other than the fact that I'm not married yet, nothingbad seems to have happened to her.
Yes.
I remember when he died, my mother had to go through all his things andpack them away. I was seven. I remember thinking how mad he'd be when he camehome and saw what she'd done. I didn't understand he wasn't coming back.
If we can't figure out what's wrong with her, Captain, I don't think shewill. But I don't know what else to do. I've talked with Mister Homn, who'sknown her for years. I've checked her medical records. I've made enquiries tothe government on Betazed, I've contacted her closest friends. If she's beenthrough some kind of psychic trauma, there's just no evidence of it.
That's a lot to review. My mother's kept a journal since before she wasmarried.
That's the year they were married.
It starts about a year after the wedding.
My mother's so diligent about her journal. why would she have stoppedmaking entries for so long?
I don't understand any of this. Captain, I have to go back inside mymother's mind. It's the only way we're ever going to get any answers.
I know.
Hedril, be careful.
Wait! I want to talk to you.
Mother?
No. I want to help you. Why did you delete parts of your journal? Didsomething happen to you you don't want me to know about?
Who's Hedril, mother? Why is she here? Is Hedril me when I was a littlegirl?
Did you let something happen to someone? Was it here at El'nar?
Tell me. Whatever it is. we can face it together.
You can. We can.
Kestra?
What happened, Mother. What happened next?
You have to. You can't hold it back. It's killing you.
You have to forgive yourself, Mother. You have to let go.
It was a terrible tragedy. The worst thing that can happen to any parent.
I saw a little girl who was sweet and happy. She must have brought agreat deal of joy to your lives.
Isn't it better to remember her like that? I just found out I had asister I never knew. I'd like to learn what was good and joyous about her. Tocelebrate her life, not mourn it.
Kestra was here a few moments ago. Talk to her.
Do it, mother. Tell her how you feel. I'll be here with you. I'll helpyou.
Mister Homn said he saved it in case someday you wanted to remember her.
Tell me about her. I want to know everything.
Our primary concern is not to assign blame, but to recover our missingofficers.
Surely you must have some means of communication in case of a planetaryemergency.
How long has it been since your last diplomatic contact?
Then it's possible they may have changed over the years.
Hekaras Two is inhabited, isn't it? Maybe they've had contact with the
And what about the Ferengi? And the Cardassians, for that matter?
I don't think so. She's believed she's human all her life. The truthmight be devastating to her.
What do you mean?
I know how much that means to you, Data, but at the same time, by tellingher you're robbing her of the one thing you've wanted all your life. To behuman.
It wasn't easy to translate. There doesn't seem to be a Klingon word forjolly.
I think it's wonderful. And I know just where to put it.
I always thought this room could use a little more colour.
Don't I wish. This is from Alexander. He gave it me just before he leftto visit your parents.  Thank you.
He wished he could have been here when you got back from shore leave. Youshould have seen him, Worf. He stayed up all night talking about how proud hewas of his father.
Oh, it was my pleasure.
Of course.
Oh?
Most children do.
Worf, that's one of the nicest things anyone's ever said to me.
His Soh-chIm?
I don't know what to say. It's a great honour. So, that would make meyour?
That would make my mother your step-mother.
I accept.
 Worf, let's assume for asecond you're right, that things did happen as you remember them. Are yousaying that everyone's memory on this ship has been altered but yours?
What's wrong?
Worf, I hung that painting there. At your birthday party, remember?
Why'd you lock the door?
I heard what happened on the Bridge. Are you all right?
Do you want to talk about it?
Very well, Lieutenant. Hot chocolate.
Actually, there is.
Come and sit down. I just want you to relax for a minute.  There.  You are so tense. Now, I know youdon't want to talk about what happened on the Bridge, but there are times whenit's just best to let things out. Come on. If you can't talk to me, who can youtalk to?
Even for your wife?
Worf, what's wrong?
What's changed?
Are you saying you don't remember the last three years? You don'tremember us falling in love and getting married?
Whatever's wrong, whatever happened, I want you to know that I believeyou. And that I love you. And together we'll find out what's happening.
I'm on my way. Let me know if you find anything.
You're a Commander and First Officer.
Yes.
What do you mean, quantum realities?
How did this happen?
Worf. From what I understand, there's a good chance my Worf won't return.
What about our children?
You didn't know?
We have a little girl, Shannara, she's two years old, and a three yearold boy, Eric Christopher.
Alexander?
Ever since the Bajorans overpowered the Cardassian Empire, they've becomemore and more aggressive.
 Welcome home, Worf.  I hope you don't mind, I let myself in. I promised Alexander I'd feedhis Dalvin hissing beetle while you were both away.
What's that supposed to mean?
Happy birthday, Worf. Will wanted to give you a surprise party, but Iknew you'd hate it so I talked him out of it.
I know Klingons like to be alone on their birthdays. I'm sure you have tomeditate, or hit yourself with a pain stick or something.
Oh?
I'd love to.
Captain Picard Day is one of the children's favourite school activities.
Because you're the Captain, and they look up to you. You're a role modelfor them.
Will.
The finalists will be here in half an hour. You have to pick a first,second and third place, and four honourable mentions.
Not entirely. The Prime Directive was designed to ensure non-interference.
I know things must look very strange to you, but everything's going to beall right. No one's going to hurt you. We're friends of Nikolai and Worf. Don'tbe afraid.
Yes. He's my friend. That means you are, too. I promise I won't hurt you.
Here he is now. This is Captain Picard.
Yes.
That was a beautiful.
No.
Maybe he was a friend or one of her patients.
I'd love to.
Your grandmother had remarkable green eyes.
How well do you remember your mother?
That's beautiful.
You should take it with you.
I'm going to head back to the ship.
I just thought you'd like some time alone. I'll see you later.
You dreamt you were in bed with someone?
You said you felt a touch.
Like a caress?
Frankly, I'm envious.
Well, that's bound to cause a dream or two. So, shall we start going overthe personnel reports?
I'd read two chapters.
Hi, Bev. I just wanted to see if you were going to mok'bara class thismorning.
Did you have another dream last night?
Is anything wrong?
Beverly, if I didn't know any better, I'd say you were seeing someone.
Now I know you're seeing someone.
Well, you obviously have romantic feelings for him. Beverly, when are yougoing to realise that you can't fool me? Who is it?
Ronin? Your grandmother's lover?
Passionate.
I admit it's unusual. I'm very happy for you. But I want you to considersomething. You and Ronin have both suffered a tremendous loss. Very often,shared traumatic experience can create the illusion of closeness and romance.
Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very intense and intimate way. Iwarned her that it was all very sudden but she didn't want to talk about it, so
It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him.
I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if wedon't feel it's a good one.
How so?
But Carstairs is better with people. Considering this is a supervisoryposition, I'd go with her.
Three months ago.
Fine with me, Captain.
The new night duty officer?
Thank you.
Yes. Don't tempt me.
Well, if he's seeing someone else he should tell Alyssa. I mean, it mighthurt her now, but it would be better in the long run.
Really? Why?
Why assume he's doing it that to get the job?
I don't know. It seems to me that you and Lavelle are a lot alike.
Didn't you tell me that you took up poker so you could be the officer'sgame at the Potemkin?
But your senior officers might have thought you were trying to ingratiateyourself. I guess it's lucky that they realised you were young andinexperienced, and decided not to hold it against you.
TROI + CRUSHER: Goodnight.
Come in.
Pull up a chair.
Thank you. I was just reporting in. I didn't expect to find anyone upexcept Data.
Isn't Barkon Four inhabited?
Fine. It was good to see some old friends. I'd lost touch with most ofthem. It's interesting to see the different paths some of their lives havetaken. Beverly, you don't usually stand a watch on the Bridge even when Data'snot here.
May I ask you a personal question? Why did you decide to become a
Is something wrong?
But he's not responding.
Is that supposed to be a question?
Because if you're asking me if I liked what you were playing, then theanswer is yes.
You know, this is a much better way of communicating for you. It's farless confusing than the way you normally speak.
I'm glad to be of service.
Actually I wanted to ask your opinion about something. I've been thinkingabout taking the Bridge Officer's test and becoming a full Commander.
A lot of things. Working on the personnel review last month, talking with
All right, I admit it was a catalyst. But I can honestly say that I'vebeen thinking about this off and on over the past two years.
Do you remember when the Enterprise hit that quantum filament and I wasin command on the Bridge?
Well, when that happened, I was overwhelmed. But when it was over Irealised that a part of me missed it. Not the actual disaster, but theexperience of being in command. I felt like I was exploring a whole new side ofmyself. Not that I want to give up counselling by any means, but I really wouldlike to stretch myself a little.
And I'm a pretty good student.
Switch to auxiliary control.
All right. Switch the EM power inverter to the lateral. No, wait. Use theneodyne relay.
Computer, emergency procedure. Eject antimatter storage unit three.
Thank you for the encouragement.
So what did I do wrong?
Why not? What kind of a test is this?
Well how do I know what to study if you won't tell me what I did wrong?
The secondary plasma vent has a triple redundant bypass. Which means thatthe primary access junction is routed through
Come in. Would be routed through the port transducer matrix. Come to giveme more encouragement?
What?
May I ask why?
Well, then I'll take it four times, or fourteen times, or however manytimes are necessary for me to get it right.
Why? Because I'm not the most technically-minded person on the ship? Imay have trouble telling the difference between a plasma conduit and a phaseinducer, but there's more to being a bridge officer than memorising technicalmanuals.
Tell me one thing. Is there a solution? Or is this simply a test of myability to handle a no-win situation?
Then give me time to find it.
My first duty is to the ship. The ship!
Computer, load Bridge Officer's test, Engineering qualification sectionone.
Run programme.
Geordi, could you repair the ODN conduit if you went into the crawlspace?
I know that. Geordi, could you repair the conduit?
Then do it. That's an order.
That's what this was all about, wasn't it? To see if I'd order someone totheir death.
I knew that was part of being in command and I thought I'd prepared forit, but when the moment came I hesitated. Maybe you were right. Maybe I'm notcut out for this.
Well, if you'll excuse me, I have the Bridge this watch.
That's right. Which means from now on you can call me sir.
 That's very good.  Well, that's very nice.
Not at all. Birds have wings of all sizes, Eric. And you shouldn't worryabout making it look perfect.
She's right. It is important that you be able to make the clay take theshape you want it to have, but you're not supposed to be concentrating ontechnique today. I'm here to help you focus on the feelings you want to conveywith your sculpture. For instance, what do you think about when you see a bird?
Fine. So, make your sculpture make me think of flying, too.
How's it going, Data?
I'm sure they are. Data, you obviously don't have a trouble with realism,but you're here to work on your imagination. Maybe you should try something alittle more abstract. Here. I want you to start a new piece. I'd like you tosculpt music.
Well, think of the effects that sounds have on people, the images thatmusic brings to your mind, and then give it a form.
It's a start.
More like falling techniques. Last time we did that I was sore for aweek.
I have no idea. I've never seen it before.
It's not quite his style.
That's an interesting thought
 That's nice. Data, this is amazing. How did you come up withthis?
That's an understatement.
Data, have you been in my quarters?
Somebody left an object in my room. Some kind of artefact, and it hassomething very similar to this. And you don't know anything about it?
As a result, Data's real personality has been completely buried. In asense, Data has the android equivalent of multiple personalities.
Who's this?
You said the personalities inside Data were in awe of her, eventerrified.
What are we being transformed into?
But why is this happening? What does the archive hope to accomplish?
The question is, can we trust a personality from an alien archive thatseems bent on taking us over?
Captain, take a look at this.
Sir?
Animals are worshipped in many cultures.
This is the most prominent instance of the horn symbol we've seen yet.
The sun chasing an animal?
And like the sun and the moon, only one of them can be in ascendance atany given time.
Sir.
We have no way idea what the result would be. The symbol might generateanything from Korgano's temple to Korgano himself.
Captain, we know so little about this culture and even less about
I met with him about six weeks ago, during the crew evaluations. He wasvery positive. He was looking forward to being posted to the nacelle tube.
If he made any personal logs, it might be helpful to look through them.
His mother's Napean, his father's human. It all looks so normal. For somereason I half expected the place to be a mess.
Well, he must have been in a lot of pain to do what he did. It could bethat the prospect of ending the pain felt like a great relief.
This is Ensign Calloway, isn't it?
It's always hard to lose someone you care about, but to lose them likethis?
This is his last entry. He made it before going on duty this morning.
Ensign Calloway. That doesn't sound like a man who's planning on takinghis own life.
I thought you might like to know that in his personal logs, Dan talkedabout you a great deal. He loved you very much.
That's what I'm trying to find out. I know it's hard to talk right now,but it would be very helpful if you could tell me a few things about him. Whenwas the last time you saw him?
Did he mention anything that had happened recently, anything that mighthave upset him?
Nara. She's his superior officer in the nacelle tube?
Was he prone to mood swings or depression?
Well, Napeans are partially empathic. He may have inherited some of hismother's abilities.
I understand.
Oh, I didn't see you there. You're Lieutenant Nara, aren't you?
I'm investigating Lieutenant Kwan's death, and I just wanted to lookaround.
Did you notice any change in his behaviour recently?
How was his job performance?
Did he get along with his coworkers?
But not all?
Where was Lieutenant Kwan's station?
I don't know.
I don't know how to describe it. I was suddenly overwhelmed by a flood ofemotions. Fear, rage, panic. And the sensations didn't seem to be coming fromany person. They were just there, in the room.
I was.
I don't know.
I don't see how. But if I went back to the nacelle tube, I might get abetter sense of what I experienced.
Come in. Hello, Worf.
Everything I've read suggests that he was well-adjusted and optimistic.
Yridian tea. I've been thinking about what happened to me in the nacelletube. Whether it was an empathic echo left by Kwan's death.
All the ones I'm sure of, yes.
Well, when I was a young girl, my grandfather used to tell me stories bythe fire. I would close my eyes and listen to his mind for hours on end.
My grandfather rarely spoke. He said that was for off-worlders and peoplewho didn't know any better. Now the only time I can remember his stories iswhen I go home and sit by the fireplace. Sometimes when I'm alone there, it'salmost as if I can hear his voice inside my head.
I can't explain it, but it feels real to me. Just like what happened inthe nacelle tube.
Oh, it's all right.
Could you open this door for me?
I just want to take a quick look.
I'm not sure.
Worf?
Worf?
Let's get out of here.
Yes, I think I do. There was a tool crate on the floor. It was labeled
Everyone was looking directly at me, but it was as though I was seeingthrough someone else's eyes.
It's possible, but I don't see how it could have happened.
I've never seen the woman before, or the man who was with her. But therewas someone else there. A man. He was staring at me in the most peculiar way. Ithink he had reddish hair. And he did seem familiar to me. But it's all sohazy. It's like trying to remember a dream.
I don't know, but something terrible happened in there. I felt it.
If only I could go back to the control room without being overwhelmed bythe experience. It might help me remember some detail that might be relevant.
I'd like to try that.
No. There were literally thousands of people involved in building the
I think I have. The man who looked familiar to me may have served onboard the Enterprise in the last seven years, so I've asked the computer tolimit its search to personnel who served at Utopia Planitia and on the
Ensign Salvatore. He transferred over a year ago. Lieutenant Ziff. She'sin Quantum mechanics. That's him.
I remember now. He came on board about six months ago. I think he's in
Did you ever spend time in the nacelle control room while it was underconstruction?
Were you ever in the nacelle room at the same time as Lieutenant Kwan?
Do you recall if anything unusual happened there?
An altercation, perhaps. Possibly involving Lieutenant Kwan.
Not at all. When I was in the nacelle room I had an empathic experience.
And I saw you there. Do you have any idea why that might be?
Lieutenant, are you aware that I can sense when someone's telling thetruth?
Then I'm sure that if you remember anything that might be relevant to ourinvestigation, you'll contact me.
Thank you, Lieutenant.
The strange thing is I couldn't read him at all.
Well it wouldn't be much of a bluff if you knew, would it? The fact that
That's what I don't understand. Even though I couldn't read his emotions,
Maybe we should try to access the Engineering logs from Utopia Planitia.
It going to take about half an hour for the transmission to be completed.
It is late.
A little.
Goodnight.
I think we should. I'll see you in the morning.
Hello.
That sounds nice. But it can wait. Why didn't we do this a long time ago?
Yes, Doctor.
Acknowledged.
Will it completely suppress my empathic abilities?
Good morning.
Data and Geordi are already in the nacelle tube. Are you ready?
All right.
I'm fine. The inhibitor seems to be working. Have you found anything?
I don't remember seeing these during my empathic experience. Have theybeen here since the ship was built?
Geordi, I remember seeing a plasma conduit right there.
Can you open it?
Lieutenant Nara, may I ask you something? The work Lieutenant Kwan wasdoing, was it unusual in any way?
Thank you.
Something happened when you removed the panel. There's something inthere.
Yes.
That's her. That's the woman I saw.
Something's not right. Pull up Lieutenant Kwan's service record. Ithought so. He didn't arrive at the shipyard until six months after Finn'sdeath. I couldn't have been seeing through his eyes.
Well it had to be someone who was at least partially telepathic.
Yes, but not as clearly as I could see everything else. His face lookedlike that.
So I was seeing through his eyes. And Finn was trying to get away fromhim. She was afraid of him.
Worf, can I ask you something? Do you regret what happened last night?
Are you sure? Because I don't want anything to jeopardise our friendship.
I'm not feeling myself. Maybe it's the inhibitor. I'm so used to sensingwhat people are feeling, and now I can't.
That might be a good idea.
I'll be waiting for you.
Deck eight.
Come in.
Security to Counsellor Troi's quarters.
Where is he?
Troi to Worf. Computer, where is Lieutenant Worf?
Take Lieutenant Pierce to his quarters and hold him there.
Security override, authorisation Troi Delta two nine.
Stop it. Stop it! Stop it!
No! No!
I know what I have to do.
You're alive! You're all right!
It all seemed so real to me. I can't believe that everything Iexperienced happened in just those few seconds.
I don't believe it was an accident. I think Lieutenant Pierce found outthe other two were having an affair. He lost control and he killed them both.
It may be that when Lieutenant Pierce was struck by the plasma stream,the subspace energy present there imprinted his empathic pattern into theresidue.
That's what triggered my hallucination. My mind must have taken elementsfrom my own life and then created a situation that in many ways mirrored whathappened to Pierce. If you hadn't been there, I would have jumped just like hedid.
Well, actually, in my hallucination, you were killed.
Well, you know what they say, Mister Worf. Hell hath no fury like a womanscorned.
Thanks for waiting.
Worf we were supposed to have lunch together, remember?
Well, I'm hungry too. Excuse me.
Can I have an order of Ongilin caviar. Make that a double order.
I'm in the mood for something salty. Besides, it's no stranger than whatyou're eating.  Have you noticed how dry the air is onthe ship? I wonder if the environmental controls are set properly.
You're excused.
Is something wrong?
You always say that.
Worf, calm down. I think you're under more stress than you'd like toadmit. Maybe you should get some rest.
I didn't mean right now. 
I'll check that.
Computer, increase ambient temperature by two degrees Centigrade andincrease relative humidity by ten percent.
Worf, it's freezing in here.
Live with it. Computer, execute my original command.
I need a bath. You have the Bridge.
What are you doing here?
Computer, increase temperature by five degrees.
Leave me alone!
Can I have a glass of water? It's so cold in here.
I think I'd better clear my calendar for the next few weeks.
As you can see, there are three other planets in this sector that haveenvironmental conditions similar to those here on Dorvan Five. They're alluninhabited and could be colonised immediately.
Captain, I suggest we adjourn. Allow us all time to think about what'sbeen said.
I am. Several Indian tribes rose up to overthrow their Spanish overlordsand drove them out of what is now called New Mexico.

Somehow I doubt the Yridians are going to be forthcoming about where theymight have gone.
You're up to something.
How did you know?
Why would someone do that?
What is it?
Hello, Jason. I'm Deanna Troi, Ship's Counsellor.
No, I just thought I'd come and see how you were doing. A lot's happenedin the last few hours. I thought you might like to talk about it.
But you've never met your father before.
It must be somewhat overwhelming.
Well, that's only natural.
So, how did you feel about the Captain, about your father?
I was born on Betazed.
Look Jason, I came here to talk to you because I'm the Ship's Counsellor.
You're welcome to make an appointment to come by my office.
I know you'd probably have preferred a bottle of
How could that happen?
Almost like an imagination. Captain, I'd like to go to the holodeck. Icould interact with the characters and maybe find some clues to help usunderstand what's happening.
Welcome aboard, Counsellor.
No.
Can you deal me in?
Is that why you killed the Engineer? To get this brick?
Why? What's at Keystone City?
Wait. What happens at Keystone City? Why are you taking the brick there?
I think we should follow that man. That brick may be an important clue.
Where did he go?
There he is. I'm going after him.
What are you doing here?
That man said he was laying a foundation.
Troi to Data
How are you doing?
What's happening?
I'm fine.
The ship was protecting itself again. Stopping us from interfering.
I think he's right, Captain. Look at the common themes playing out on theholodeck. A puzzle being put together, a foundation being laid, a paper dollbeing fashioned. They're all images of something being constructed.
The holodeck was full of metaphoric imagery like it was having some kindof daydream. It may not make literal sense, but symbolically it probably doeshave some kind of logic to it.
I think they represent different aspects of the ship. The Engineer, forinstance, may represent the navigational system, the gunslinger could be theweapon system.
I don't think it's possible to reason with them. Many of them aregenuinely unaware of what's going on. It's as though this emergent intelligenceis like an infant acting on impulse, trying to figure itself out as it goes.
Maybe there is. I'd like to go back and try.
I'm aware of that.
Is there anything we can do to help?
Why don't you go with him, Worf? We'll see what we can do here.
Of course. You needn't worry about a thing. So, tell me everything youknow about Vertiform City.
Yes. What happened?
Where are we going now?
Let's go.
Please listen to me. We understand what's happening. We know you have getto New Vertiform City, and we want to help you get there.
Please, we're your friends.
I promise.
Congratulations on your promotion, Lieutenant.
Thank you.
This is real Bajoran foraiga.
So, where are your new quarters?
That was an incredible programme.
Worf, we were walking barefoot on the beach with balalaika music in theair, ocean breeze washing over us, stars in the sky, a full moon rising, andthe most you can say is stimulating?
You know, I don't spend nearly enough time on the holodeck. I should takemy own advice and go there to relax. Next time I'll choose the programme. Ifyou like the Black Sea, you're going to love Lake Cataria on Betazed.
Why, is he coming along?
Worf, I think it's all right to concentrate on our feelings, yours andmine.
Captain, what's wrong?
Can you describe where you were, what it looked like?
It's all right. Have you considered the possibility that this was just adream?
How long did you spend in each time period? Did it seem like minutes,hours?
Captain? Captain?
Is there any indication of temporal displacement?
Of course.
No, sir. I'm only aware of the crew and the families on board the ship.
Captain, perhaps if we understood your thinking, if you could explain
Yes.
There was a reception in Ten Forward. I introduced you to Worf and theother senior officers.
No.
Actually I, we have plans.
No, sir.
And that you were causing it now?
I don't think we can start second guessing ourselves. I think we have toproceed normally and deal with each situation as it occurs.
Captain, may I have a word with you in private?
Captain, I just wanted to voice my concerns about the way the crew isresponding to your unexpected orders.
Some do. Others are confused. It takes some time for a new crew to get toknow their Captain, and for him to know them.
It would also help if they knew what was going on.
Actually, sir, there is. I was debating whether to mention it, andperhaps. It's about Commander Riker.
I think you should know he and I have had a prior relationship.
Not at all. It happened several years ago and it's well behind both of usnow. I just thought you should know.
Thank you, sir.
Sir?
But I thought you had more sense than to send a defenceless shipacross the border into hostile territory with no escort.
Aye, sir.
All decks report ready, sir.
Captain, are you all right?
Is something wrong, sir?
Am I too late?
What's the game?
You were always welcome.
