Difficult? Simply solve the mystery of Farpoint Station.
Inquiry. The word snoop?
Possibility, a kind of human behaviour I was not designed to emulate.
Ah! To seek covertly, to go stealthily, to slink, slither
Glide, creep, skulk, pussyfoot, gumshoe.
It registers as solid, Captain.
Inadvisable at any warp speed, sir.
It is possible, sir. But absolutely no margin for error.
Heading three five one mark eleven, sir.
Hostile's velocity is already warp nine point six, sir. Shall I put themon the main viewer?
Magnifying viewer image.
Engine room attempting to comply, sir, but they caution us
Projection, sir. We may be able to match hostile's nine point eight, sir.
Starship separation in six, five, four, three, two, one.
Separation is successful, sir.
Reverse power. Decelerating.
Historically intriguing, Captain. Very, very accurate.
At least we are acquainted with the judge, Captain.
If I may, Captain? Objection, your honour. In the year 2036, the new
Uncertain. When he froze Lieutenant Torres on the Bridge, we had our
Yes, sir. The Captain had asked the question. Can we assume you mean thiswill be a fair trial? And in reply the judge stated, yes, absolutely equitable.
What is present course, conn?
Confirm. We are on that heading, sir.
Aye, sir, into the standard parking orbit.
Message from the saucer module, sir. It will arrive here in fifty oneminutes.
DATA : The saucer module is now entering orbit with us, sir.
They say you will be doing this manually, sir. No automation.
No sir. But at your age, sir, I thought you shouldn't have to put up withthe time and trouble of a shuttlecraft.
Sir?
Sorry, sir. If that subject troubles you
One hundred thirty seven years, Admiral, according to Starfleet records.
I remember every fact I am exposed to, sir.
No, sir. I'm an android.
I thought it was generally accepted, sir, that Vulcans are an advancedand most honourable race.
Yes, sir.
I will, sir.
Tell me the location of Commander Data.
Marvellous. How easily humans do that. I still need much practice.
I shall endeavour to function adequately, sir.
Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always.
No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honours in probability mechanics andexobiology.
Machine, Correct, sir. Does that trouble you?
Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human.
I am superior, sir, in many ways, but I would gladly give it up to behuman.
Ah. Intriguing.
This woodland pattern is quite popular, sir. Perhaps because itduplicates Earth so well. Coming here almost makes me feel human myself.
Much of it is real, sir. If the transporters can convert our bodies to anenergy beam, then back to the original pattern again
Correct, sir. The rear wall.
We're right next to it.
You and I will start with topside.
I can't see as well as Geordi, sir, but so far the material seems rathervery ordinary.
Construction records show this to be almost identical to that which
Commander, something down here is shielding our communicators.
Negative. But something similar.
Are you undamaged?
All systems operating.
Unlikely, sir. Our records show that you supervised all Bandi contactwith other worlds.
First officer to Enterprise. We'velost Zorn. Something like a transporter beam seems to have snatched him away.
Most interesting, sir.
But no sound of power. No equipment.
Most intriguing again, sir. The place that this vessel was firing uponwas not the Farpoint starbase, but the home of those who constructed. Sorry,sir. I seem to be commenting on everything.
And firing not on the new space station, but on the Bandi and their city.
Ready for departure, sir.
SS Tsiolkovsky, repeat your message.
Captain, what we just heard is impossible.
I believe that last sound we heard was an emergency hatch being blown.
Indications of what humans would call a wild party?
Correction, sir, that's blown out.
A common mistake, sir,
I am already listed in several bio-mechanical texts, Doctor.
Specifics, sir?
Ah. The body Geordi discovered.
To someone, somewhere.
About that, sir. Did the Doctor believe I was boasting?
At least several hours. But what I said was a statement of fact. Perhapsshe will look it up.
Can you provide more information, sir? Seeking an instance of someoneshowering in his or her clothing is
Why should anyone wish to expend his time in such a search?
Ah, a human proverb! As in folklore, or an historical allusion, or tribalmemories
Enterprise history. Aberrant behavior. Medical cross reference,
Aye, sir. Downloading.
Inquiry, sir. Snootful?
Captain, another forty-one minutes will see the information from the
Slow, sir? The Tsiolkovsky has been eight months in accumulating it.
Like a full collapse, sir? Any stellar material it threw this way wecould still outrun on half impulse power.
Confirmed, sir. And there was a rather peculiar limerick being deliveredby someone in the Shuttlecraft bay. I am not sure I understand it. There was ayoung lady from Venus whose body was shaped like
Did I say something wrong?
Yes, sir.
Lieutenant Yar?
Captain Picard ordered me to escort you to Sickbay, Lieutenant.
I am sure he meant now. So, you need time to get into uniform.
Chronological age? No, I am afraid I am not familiar with
I am sorry. I did not know,
Of course, but
In every way, of course. I am programmed in multiple techniques, a broadvariety of pleasuring,
Fully, Captain.
We are more alike than unlike, my dear Captain. I have pores. Humans havepores. I have fingerprints. Humans have fingerprints. My chemical nutrients arelike your blood. If you prick me, do I not leak?
Nice to see you, Wesley.
Ah, a game!
No, this will take slightly more time than we have, sir.
If we just had one minute more, sir,
Thirteenth Century, sir.
With their orbital control station, sir.
It reads similar to early Starfleet efforts but uses the Heglenian shiftto convert matter and energy in different.  Which is actually notimportant at this time.
If I may, sir. One of the things about them in the briefing studies wastheir respect for patience.
It is a highly structured society in which people live by strict codes ofhonour. For example, what Lutan did is similar to what certain American Indiansonce did called counting coup. That's from an obscure language called French.
Indeed? But surely, sir
Yes, sir. Counting coup could be as simple as touching an enemy with astick in battle, or taking something from him and escaping. It was consideredextremely heroic.
Transmission from the planet surface, sir, Main viewer on.
Politely, Captain.
Agreed, sir. Their customs concerning guests make it much preferable.
Except that Ligonian custom makes it clear that a visiting leader becomesan honoured guest. Not us, not second in command, him.
Why that razor, my friend? Why not the one I adjusted to perfectefficiency?
Puzzling. How can anything be too efficient?
We always come back to the human equation.
Constantly, my friend. Particularly the humour. A man goes to a store tobuy some kidneys.
He says to the shopkeeper, I'd like a pound of kiddillies, please. Theshopkeeper says to him, You mean kidneys, don't you? The man says, I saidkiddillies, diddle I?
How do you know when something is funny?
Perhaps it is you, Geordi. Includling the kiddillies, I've learned sixhundred sixty two jokes, and you have not
It was not meant as a joke. The tongue slipped.
From any particular point of view, sir?
Most interesting. Could this be human joke number six hundred sixtythree?
Which makes it important to know which of these weapons are to be used.
I may not understand human humour, sir, but I am a Starfleet Academygraduate.
understanding the Prime Directive, sir.
And light, as if they were made for women to use.
Uncertain, sir. However, joined together they would make a rectangle orsquare enclosing one hundred twenty one square metres. If put end to endvertically, they would make a pole forty four metres high, or two of twentytwo.
You're welcome, sir.
Most interesting. Do you?
Was I seen leaving?
Captain Picard wanted no risk of our communications being overheard. Youare to proceed now as he indicated.
I'm here to brief you on what he plans.
Legends which are totally unsupported by fact, Captain.
A message from planet Haven, Counsellor. They wish to beam the Millerwedding party aboard.
On the viewer, Captain. Unidentified vessel travelling sub-warp speed,bearing two three five point seven.
If you mean a Tarellian vessel, sir, it is.
Tarella was class M, much like your Earth, with similar humanoid lifeforms. Unfortunately they faced the old story of hatred out poweringintelligence.
Between the inhabitants of their two land masses, resulting in one groupunleashing a deadly biological weapon on the other.
Exactly thirteen hours, nine minutes, twenty two seconds, three hundredfifty
Considering the rate at which you imbibe, sir, is your lineage at allmixed with human?
Sir?
Perhaps being human yourself, sir, you do not find them as intriguing as
Mrs. Troi, I'm very interested in the Betazed ceremony you mentioned.
Could you please continue the petty bickering? I find it most intriguing.
Because our sensors are showing a responder echo, sir, on the frequencythey once used.
They're within transporter range, sir.
Unless they have all died. Their ship could have been brought in byautomation.
Sir, we put Mister Kosinski's specs into the computer and ran acontrolled test on them. There was no improvement in engine performance.
It's off the scale, sir.
Captain, no one has ever reversed engines at this velocity.
Malfunction, I trust.
Two million seven hundred thousand light years.
You must, sir. Our comparisons show it to be completely accurate.
Which, traveling subspace, they should receive in fifty-one years, tenmonths nine weeks, sixteen days
Sir?
Captain, we're here. Why not avail ourselves of this opportunity forstudy? There is a giant protostar here in the process of forming. No othervessel has been out this far.
According to the instruments, sir, our speed never exceeded warp onepoint five.
Where none have gone before.
Warp one point five, sir, which is what my instruments have read allalong.
Sleigh ride?
Warp five, sir.
Listed as Delphi Ardu, sir. Eleven planets, unexplored.
Possibility, a malfunction in their engines, sir.
Nothing specific, sir. As you know, Ferengi technology is estimated to begenerally equal to our own.
Correct, sir. We are no doubt advanced in some areas, they in others.
Mostly electromagnetic, sir. Fusion generator and batteries down bythirty percent.
They are slowing too, sir.
Sir, something is dragging us forward.
Captain, this shouldn't be. Our ship's power systems are failing.
None, sir. Only hearsay and third hand reports, most of which conflict.
That the Ferengi are, well, the best description may be traders.
A comparison modern scholars have drawn from Earth history likens the
Who in this case sail the galaxy in search of mercantile and territorialopportunity.
Hardly, sir. I believe this analogy refers to the worst quality ofcapitalists. The Ferengi are believed to conduct their affairs of commerce onthe ancient principle caveat emptor. Let the buyer beware.
Well, sir, I doubt they wear red, white and blue, or look anything like
And the German nation red, black and gold. The Italians green, white andred. The British
It was you who
Given what is now happening to our ship, sir, their weapons could bevastly superior to ours.
Captain, I think you had better see this.
Someone is reading every file, every bit of information stored in the
And more, perhaps.
Open, sir.
Hailing frequencies open, sir.
 Fortunately, Starfleet has no such rules involvingour second officers.
As requested, Captain, library computer information on this planet. Ithas been charted only from long range scans. It is Class M, but shows noindications of life forms, sentient or otherwise. However, you may find this ofinterest. Resolving it into our language.
The centre of a huge space federation, a population of trillions.
Understandable. It has been extinct six hundred thousand of our  of our years. These planets were onceoutposts of that empire.
Apologies, Captain. I seem to have reached an odd functional impasse. Iam stuck.
Yes, sir. That is what I am trying to do, sir, but the solution eludesme.
Intriguing. It describes the Empire as being highly advanced andpowerful, and capable of actually moving stars.
Correct, sir. Outposts. The planet below was possibly one of them.
Their sun went supernova, sir.
This planet may have been the most distant outpost, sir, but it shows nolife form readings.
Yankee trader.
Especially in view of the fact the image he transmitted, sir, was somehowdistorted.
With this power drain, we may have trouble communicating with the
Due to this forcefield, there is presently no way to beam us back, sir.
Most intriguing, sir. I assume a problem of inaccurately transmittedprogramme coordinates due to the force field around the ship, sir. Are wealone, sir?
Crystalline. Mostly inert. Nothing to write home about.
Slang, sir. I did use it correctly, did I not?
What?
Tricorder's useless, sir. Communication's gone too. Fortunately you didnot break any
 Careful, Commander, they're much stronger than
I believe we can deduce that these crystalline tree shapes are actuallyenergy collectors.
It is a matter of record, Portal. In the Age of Makto, the central starof the Tkon Empire destabilised and
In fact, there have been many ages which have come and passed since
I'm afraid not. According to the Tkon use of galactic motionary startimecharts, after Bastu came Cimi, Xora, Makto
They should add that Starfleet has permitted several civilisations tofall. We have at times allowed the strong and violent to overcome the weak.
Something to write home about.
Sir, my sensors are picking up an unusual energy object ahead.
Also travelling at warp speed, sir. Intriguing. I can find no match withanything in our records, sir.
Aye, sir.
No life form reading, sir.
Sir, it is changing shape.
Negative, Captain. Energy only.
A mystery is only a mystery as long as it remains uninvestigated, sir.
Intriguing, Doctor. What does helm control have to do with medicalcrosschecks?
Is something wrong, Doctor?
Captain? There is a malfunction in this station. I cannot bring anyinformation up on it. Science two does not function either, sir.
It is a virtual impossibility, sir.
Sir, subspace radio is out.
If the Enterprise were really this fragile, sir, she never would haveleft Spacedock. Therefore, her systems' failures are not endemic to the ship,but are the result of the actions of an unknown adversary.
I believe I said that.
Ferengi contacts have been detected on both Selay and Antica, sir.
Inquiry. Private eye?
A most interesting occupation.
 Imprecise, Lieutenant. They omitted certaintruths, which in itself tells us something.
Indubitably, my good woman.
Has studied, sir. Every case. As Holmes would've pointed out, during thetime in question, something was afoot.
While both sets of delegates say they were in their quarters, our crewlocator sensed them passing here and here.
On the contrary, dear colleague. On their return, they drew medicalsupplies appropriate to the treatment of minor wounds and abrasions on theselife forms.
Exactly. That they were too engaged in their own affairs to have disabledour ship and murdered the Engineer. Given a choice, they'd rather kill eachother than any of us. It's elementary, my dear Riker. Sir.
Yes, sir. If you wish, sir. But I ask if you'd take it asincontrovertible that it cannot be a family member or one of our crew?
Then our investigation was worthwhile, sir. We have eliminated both thedelegates and the ship's regular complement.
I am referring to the great detective's credo, sir. I quote, we must fallback on the old axiom that when other contingencies fail, whatever remains,however improbable, must be the truth.
Yes, since we obtained only minimal information on our sensor pass of it.
A mere change of direction hardly justifies mutiny.
And at the moment it is all pure speculation. He has done nothing tosubject the Enterprise to danger.
I understand. As an energy pattern, free of the limitations of matter, hemight travel anywhere, at any velocity.
Sir, I see no way for you to journey with an energy form.
Still no readings, no sign of anything.
Sir, the entity was caught in the ship's circuitry. The Captain might tryto get in the same way if he's in trouble.
Just as before, going to Worf first.
He's in the ship's circuitry. Come to the Transporter room, please. Theremight be a way, sir. Hurry!
I knew we had to have the Captain's physical pattern here, sir. He wasthe last one to beam out.
Unknown at this time, sir. I hope the Captain remembers his physicalpattern is here. If he has, his energy has moved into the transporter relays bynow.
Energising, sir.
I believe the Captain is now his separate self, sir. Much of whathappened is naturally missing.
Indubitably, sir, Indubitably.
But there is a problem here, sir.
I'm reading something off the starboard bow, but there is nothing there.
I've traced it through our sensor channel, sir It is not a glitch or anyother form of error or malfunction.
Exactly. As if it were neither in or out of our dimension.
Whatever is sitting out there without triggering our alarm relays, sir.
Enterprise to object off our starboard bow. Request that you identifyyourself.
It was something unintelligible, Captain. Now running it through languageand logic circuits.
I've got some information on its first transmission, sir. It translatesas stand by.
Verified, sir. Something very small.
The away team signal's been cut off, Captain. We've lost contact with ourpeople.
The colony we just planted, sir.
Captain, I do not understand how, but it is asking me if I wasconstructed for information exchange.
I was an excellent choice for them, Captain. They were able tocommunicate with me quite. I was about to say quite easily, but there wasnothing easy about it. Fortunately, they stopped short of overloading mycircuitry.
Definitely not a single entity if that's what you mean, sir, althoughthey know the Edo worship them as a god thing.
They recognise that this is quite expected and harmless at the present
It is perhaps not what we would understand as a vessel, sir. Thedimensions this one occupies allows them to be, well, to be in several placesat once. But they consider this entire star cluster to be theirs. It wasprobably unwise of us to attempt to place a human colony in this area. Ofcourse, there are three thousand four other planets in this star cluster inwhich we could have colonised. The largest and closest
Babble, sir? I'm not aware that I ever babble, sir. It may be that fromtime to time I have considerable information to communicate, and you mayquestion the way I organise it.
Undecided, sir.
I volunteer that they are now observing us, sir.
No, it is more curiosity, sir. I doubt that they expect us to abide bytheir value systems.
They know everything I know, sir.
It would be a case of judging us by our own rules, sir. If we violate ourown Prime Directive, they might consider us to be deceitful and untrustworthy.
Most interesting, sir. The emotion of motherhood, compared to all othersfelt by
You were right, sir. I do tend to babble.
You sent for me, sir?
Yes, sir.
What level of communication, sir?
But I do, sir.
The problem, sir, is there.  Although they've learned ofthe Prime Directive from my mind, how will they evaluate it? How do theyreason? What are their values? Remember their warning to us, sir.
Would you choose one life over one thousand, sir?
Any sufficiently advanced life form would appear to others to be that,sir. But when they were probing my thoughts, Captain, I could feel thatwhatever they are now, they once existed in this dimension, just as we do.
We know the Edo share them, sir.
Perhaps the Edo are a child race by comparison. Possibly a race whichthose life forms have planted here. Much as we plant human colonies on Class-
Aye, sir.
Captain.
Boosting it? How?  We will discuss this later.
Time, sir.
Second-hand, sir? Oh, of course. A human joke.
Captain, he may refer to an incident which occurred nine years ago in the
Which you destroyed, sir.
Hardly a mistake, sir. Your report shows that it deliberately attacked.
You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the Picard
Sir, the Ferengi are standing by for us to take possession of the
 USS Stargazer. Constellation Class. Starfleet
You'll find this most intriguing, sir.
The last entry dated nine years ago, sir. By you.  We areforced to abandon our starship. May she find her way without us. Apparently shedid, sir.
Starfleet has responded to our request, sir. A tug will rendezvous withus and tow the Stargazer back to Xendi Starbase Nine.
The records of the Stargazer, sir. What the Ferengi call the Battle of
It would appear that the starship which Captain Picard attacked, had infact, been under a flag of truce.
And apparently, the Captain destroyed the ship without notice orprovocation.
An accident in Engineering.
It is logged in his own voice, sir. Would you care to hear it, sir? Sir?
By comparing the Stargazer's main computer log with Captain Picard'spersonal log, I have found checksum discrepancies, sir.
All information is time-coded by entry, and the bits when totaled producean aggregate amount which
One of these two logs is a forgery, sir.
As I said, that is one of them, is it not?
Yes, sir. Whoever tampered with your personal log was clever.
Sir.
I have a fix on it, sir. Inside Captain Picard's quarters.
Considerable fire damage to interior surface reported, sir. But none ofher main systems were crippled.
There is no defence, sir.
I have computed a possibility, Commander. Since even deep space containstrace gases, sir, a vessel in the Picard manoeuvre might seem to disappear, butour sensors could locate any sudden compression of those gases.
This class starship has enough power to use our tractor beam on it. Seizeit, limit it's field of fire.
No question of it, sir.
Which will bring us to the colony in three point two hours, sir.
The Q entity, sir. It is identical to the grid we encountered when
Obviously a class M world. Gravity and oxygen within our limits.
Considering the power demonstrated by Q the last time, anywhere. Assumingthis place even exists.
Sir, what he has in mind might provide us with vital information.
That is what humans call a truism.
This is from Europe's Napoleonic era, sir. Late eighteenth, earlynineteenth centuries. This is a campaign headquarters tent, his uniform is thatof a French Army marshal.
The third ridge?
Muskets are appropriate to the 1790 to 1800 French army uniform, sir. Butit is hardly a weapon by our standards. A lead ball propelled by gunpowder. Onehundred metres at best with any accuracy.
You may find it aesthetically displeasing, sir. I could just file acomputer report on that.
And the reason for that, sir?
DATA : In orbit of Quadra Sigma Three, sir. Ready to beam down rescue teamto underground emergency area.
This way sir.
Sir, if indeed you have the power of Q.
Are you certain, sir?
No. No, sir.
Yes, sir, that is true. But I never wanted to compound one illusion withanother. It might be real to Q, perhaps even you, sir. But it would not be soto me. Was it not one of the Captain's favourite authors who wrote, This aboveall, to thine own self be true? Sorry, Commander, I must decline.
Sir, how is it that the Q can handle time and space so well, and us sobadly?
Mordan has had peace for five years. They have finally come to a state ofproductivity which satisfies their planetary needs, but no more than that.
Aye, sir.
Aye, sir. Frequency open and secured.
Aye, sir.
I have it, sir.
I am sorry, sir. That does not correspond with the information in mytricorder, sir. JAMESON: Your information is incorrect, Commander. I know thesetunnels like the back of my own hand. Keep scanning for signs of human lifeforms. Karnas held his hostages in these tunnels before. He'll do it again.
Captain, the Admiral is definitely incorrect. The tunnel schematics wehave show this to be a dead end. It was sealed off two years ago.
Their phasers, sir, set on kill.
No sign of a wound.
An ancient Earth device used primarily for transportation.
Also seen as a source of status and virility. Often a prime ingredient inteenage mating rituals.
City block.
Shall I tell him, sir?
Yes. If, on the other hand, the Captain makes even the slightest error
We are all aware of the tape of the last Federation starship to come incontact with the Jaradan. It graphically demonstrates what happened when that
Should we not rerun it?
Why would the Captain not want to review all available information on thesubject?
This Dixon Hill is a most puzzling character.
Ah, but was his modus operandi not dissimilar? Worth investigating.
Computer: request all biographical information on fictional character
Request complete text of all stories involving said character. Increasespeed.
Request permission to accompany you, sir. I am totally versed in thegenre of the period.
DiMaggio, sir. Jolting Joe, the Yankee clipper.
The streak they refer to will eventually reach fifty six games. And besnapped by a pair of journeyman hurlers for the Cleveland Indians.
The record will stand until the year 2026, when a shortstop for the
Cat?
 Hiya Doc. What's cooking?
He's on ice.
He's being grilled.
Yeah, me too, boss. I'd love to take a gander.
Computer, identify exit.
There is a programming malfunction. The computer refuses to identify theexits.
I am at a loss, sir. We are in a holodeck-created building of 1941. Thecomputer refuses to accept voice commands. The controls for the environmentare, therefore, not accessible.
Your devotion to etiquette is highly admirable, sir. However, yourmethods leave much to be desired.
I was created on a planet
South America.
He speaks the truth, sir. From your point of view, he is only afacsimile, a knock-off, a cheap imitation.
Sorry sir, that did not come out quite the way I intended.
It is you who are not real, sir.
It is you who are imaginary characters derived from a work of fiction.
I am afraid you are not real either, Lieutenant.
An electronic or mechanical apparatus capable of carrying out repetitiousor complex mathematical operations at high speed. Computers are used tocontrol, process, perform, or store
If you were going to go through yourself, sir, that is not possible.
With your permission, sir?
And you, sir?
It was raining in the city by the bay. A hard rain. Hard enough to washthe slime
Sorry, sir.
Aah, ahh, ahh
Choo!
Sneezing.
A cold what?
Ah. But humans still sneeze for other reasons and I cannot seem to do itright.
More than interested. Fascinated. One might say agog. But I also findsneezing interesting.
No, thank you, sir.
I could say home sweet home, sir, if I understood how the word sweetapplies.
Affirmative, sir. But the colony's principal interest was science.
It does not, unfortunately. It means only the knowledge they hadaccumulated. Actually, I am quite deficient in some basic human information.
The land contours are familiar, sir. Topographically, this is the correctarea.
I was discovered twenty six years ago.
I was found twenty metres in that direction, sir.
I have always felt that it was done hurriedly, but I know little more.
Only a layer of dust.
Opening my eyes. Looking into the eyes of the Tripoli landing party. Theybelieved that the signal device sensed their presence and activated me.
Yes, that was it, Geordi. This wakens a memory remnant of how thecolonists hoped to remain hidden, but their fear of being discovered led totheir storing information in me.
Only a vague impression of some of my functions being tested here.
It depicts something that feels familiar, sir. And dangerous. But I haveno idea what it represents. And that is all. Except for an impression of thisbeing a Doctor Soong's work area.
He was called that here, but his memories indicate he travelled hereunder a different name.
Commander, can this be another me? Or possibly my brother?
He needs assembling.
It is very important for me to know that, sir. I never dreamed it waspossible I might find some link with some form like my own.
I've been most anxious to hear the Chief Engineer's opinion, Mister
Completely, sir.
Well, sir, a good starting point may be, why was I given human form?
Better in some ways, sir.
Press your fingers there, Doctor.  There. Itoperates almost as a switch.
An android alarm clock. Is that amusing? They time how long I remainunconscious.
I will feel nothing at all.
If you had an off switch Doctor, would you not keep it secret?
Human language gives me difficulty too, sir. Imperfect could mean I lackcertain abilities he possesses.
We do, sir, and your referring to him as an it suggests that I, too, fitinto the category of a thing.
Gladly accepted, sir. As for Lore's abilities, his use of syntax andgrammar suggests he was given human memories similar to my own.
I believe so, sir.
The answer, sir, is that my loyalty is to you and Starfleet. Completely.
All of which you will learn more about when the Captain has approved yourbeing on the Bridge.
Never. I judge Lore to be superior in that desire.
You consider it important to please humans?
There are many things of importance. Some more than others.
Do you realise that Commander Riker's hypotenuse question tricked youinto showing your knowledge was greater than you were indicating?
You tend to underestimate humans, my brother. Praising young Wesley onthe helm, for example
He has a child's body, but we have found him to be much more.
Everything available on a Doctor Noonien Soong.
But he had destroyed his own reputation by making what seemed wildpromises about his positronic brain design, almost all of which failed.
If you get one the way I did, Lore, it will mean four years at the
How?
And will we also discuss, Lore, which of us was constructed first?
You lived with the colonists?
Quite true. I keep trying to be more human, and keep failing.
And do you realise, Lore, that I am obligated to report all of this toour ship's Captain?
Use it also to describe for the Captain the time you spent among thecolonists. Including everything you know about what happened to them.
Thank you, Lore. I now have duties to perform. Unless of course, you needsomething more.
To go?
Which is used in our construction. That particular compound is no moresuspicious, sir, than a human looking for an antiseptic or an ointment.
Champagne?
I have some doubts about the value of human customs  inthis. My brother!
I will function sufficiently to stop Lore, Doctor
How sad, dear brother. You make me wish I were an only child.
I will stay with Wesley, Doctor.
Wes! The transporter.
Wesley, now!
Yes, sir. I'm fine. 
Yes, Captain.
Angel One is a class M planet, sir, supporting carbon based flora andfauna, sparsely populated with intelligent life forms. It is similar intechnological development to mid-twentieth century Earth.
Five months, fourteen days, eleven hours, two minutes
And fifty seven seconds.
Angel One has evolved into a constitutional oligarchy. It is governed bya parliamentary body consisting of six elected Mistresses, and headed by afemale they refer to as The Elected One.
A Federation vessel last visited this planet sixty two years ago,
What do we do if they deny the existence of survivors?
Interesting. An alcohol-based synthetic, artificially reproducing afloral scent.
The purpose of which is?
I am unfamiliar with that term.
How does stimulation of the olfactory nerves affect the enjoyment of sex?
If we can isolate something unique to the Odin survivors, perhaps anelement not otherwise found on Angel One, we can utilise the Enterprisescanners.
I am an android, Mistress, although anatomically I am a male.
A justified precaution, Counsellor. Mistress Beata observed that Mister
Actually, it was quite simple. Angel One has no platinum. Enterprisescanners did the rest.
Mister Ramsey is correct, Counsellor. The Odin was not a starship, whichmeans her crew is not bound by the Prime Directive. If he and the others wishto stay here, there is absolutely nothing we can do about it.
Doctor Crusher feels the virus will undoubtedly run unchecked through theentire ship. Attempts to develop an inoculants have so far ended in failure.
The border outpost reports a contingent of seven Romulan battlecruiserswithin sensor range. The USS Berlin has answered the distress call. However,should hostilities erupt, both the outpost and the starship will be out-gunned.
Excuse me, Commander, but removing any of these people against their willwould be a violation of several Starfleet regulations, not the least of whichwould be the Prime Directive.
This is Data, standing by to beam up.
Enterprise to Commander Riker.
To be precise, Commander, you ordered me to reach the Neutral Zone beforeit is too late.
After relieving Lieutenant La Forge, I computed the length of time theborder outpost
And the USS Berlin can safely withstand a Romulan attack, and deductedour time to destination at maximum warp speed. That leaves Doctor Crusher fortyeight minutes to develop an inoculants to the virus.
Forty seven, sir.
Go ahead, Doctor.
Bingo? I fail to see the relevance, Doctor. Is that not a reference to anancient Earth game?
Excellent, Doctor. We still have seventeen minutes left. I will informthe away team immediately. Enterprise to Riker.
DATA : We are ready to have you beamed up, Commander.
Understood, Commander.
Co-ordinates set. Warp six on your mark, sir.
Sir?
Ready to dock, sir.
It is an attempt at pure creativity.
And this is my attempt, with guidance from Geordi.
I am awaiting inspiration.
This is Commander Data. Go ahead, please.
Can you be more specific?
The field is deteriorating. Contact the captain immediately. I aminitiating Red Alert.
Engineering to Captain.  If the antimatter is released, theship will be destroyed.
Computer, situation analysis.
Engineering to Bridge.
Alert starbase. Inform them we are abandoning the ship. Tell them why.
DATA : There is no time.
Based on all information presently available, the decision is correct.
DATA : Abandon ship.
Computer, where are the Captain and Commander Riker?
Curious. The Captain is usually the last to leave.
I hope we are.
No. Are they not here on Starbase?
We have to beam back and get them.
Which is the nearest Starfleet vessel?
I know the Trieste. Too small, too slow.
Where are the Bynars?
They are obviously still aboard. Another Starfleet vessel must be sent tointercept the Enterprise at Bynaus. They might be taking the ship to their homeplanet.
It is the best place for us to start.
Do you think I am responsible?
My station is on the Bridge.
You are wrong, Geordi. I can. I do not need rest or diversion. I shouldnot have been painting. I was negligent.
DATA : I am here, sir.
The access would be available by code or password.
File names can be anything, sir.
Then a name, or a place. It could be something personal. In this case, inbinary language, which is ones and zeros in groups of eight or sixteencharacters.
We are sensing life-forms, sir.
Both matters are subjects of protracted discussion.
Theories, reports, but nothing first-hand.
The efficiency of your hydraulic landscaping is quite elegant.
Geordi, this appears to be the master subsurface pump.
This is interesting. The water table is a thin ribbon between the sandysurface layer and the rocks below.
Which would require extreme precision from the probe controls.
Go ahead, Geordi.
I will go with you.
DATA : Geordi, this is intriguing. I have seen malfunctions
But this is almost as if the laser drill seemed to operate itself with awill
DATA : Separate from it's control console.
The laser blasts seemed to end when the yelling stopped.
Not possible.
Uncertain. Geordi, please return power to the control console in thisroom. I wish to reactivate the programme.
I am running the base drilling programme.
DATA : Geordi, servos off.
DATA : Too much to explain.
Bridge, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. No need to beam me up, sir.
Yes.
No, but the firing programme was dynamic.
It adjusted to my tactics. It tracked with me, anticipating. A fixedprogramme could not have done that.
That is exactly how it appeared. There was a mind working against me.
I had no choice.
We were attempting to trace the source of the malfunction when itattacked me.
It would appear the laser's drilling system was reprogrammed, sir. Assoon as its memory bank received power, it turned itself on and went after me.
I believe it was programmed to destroy any person moving in that room,sir.
Certainty.
But it was done.
What are we to look for, sir?
Geordi, I need some visual assistance.
Speculation. Could it be alive?
Whatever it is, it could be what they are covering up, and the reasonsomeone killed Malencon.
It's never been done, Doctor.
Reproduction?
Recheck analysis, please.
It started after Doctor Crusher ordered the scanner to magnify.
Unknown. But it is definitely reacting to our presence. Perhaps it ispicking up the electrical impulse of our systems.
Without external influence.
Unknown, sir. Perhaps it is scanning us.
Unknown at this time, sir.
It is projecting an energy field.
Only life can replicate itself, Doctor. Inorganic or not, it is alive.
Please show me the spectral analysis magnification twelve K.
Transistor material.
Emits charge when lit.
The Universal Translator is coming on line, sir.
An accurate description of humans, sir. You are over ninety per centwater surrounded by a flexible container.
The translator is now offline, sir.
Sir, that chaos when we were studying it in the lab must have been theenergy surge of a reproductive cycle. It is now a colony of single cells whichorganize as a computer. And like any computer
That seems to be it's method of reprogramming, Captain. Each bolt oflight consists of negatively and positively charged ions. A series of programmeinstructions, as it were. It seems to have a quicker rapport with our computersthan we have.
It does seem dormant, Captain.
Environmental systems fail to respond to command, Captain. It appears themicrobrain has successfully interfaced with our computers.
It connected them.
The saline fluid is their circuitry, and to prevent its loss, they killed
Captain, our sensors indicate that the microbrain expends a tremendousamount of energy during its reproductive cycle. Yet there is no discerniblepower drain on our own systems.
Meaning the microbrains might be photoelectric.
I wish we were able to learn more about them, sir.
Scanners still show nothing, sir.
Sensors indicate that the shield is electromagnetic, a complicated lightrefracting mechanism.
Aye, sir.
The theory is simple. The shield bends light rays around the planet'scontour, similar to the Romulan cloaking device. But the implementation isquite difficult.
Some sort of scanning device, sir.
All decks being probed in a methodical pattern, sir.
Aye, sir.
We may be more successful in deciphering the code they use to transportthrough the magnetic shield.
Eventually, sir. I am working on it now but the number of permutations isalmost endless.
I am not aware of Regulation six point five seven.
I see, sir. Oh, I see, sir.
What was that?
I believe it was a repulsor beam.
That may be impossible, sir.
Yes, sir.
Captain.
These permutations are going to take a very long time.
Weeks.
This is it, Commander. It is programmed to accept only authorised voicecommand.
No, but I can scramble the input so that nobody else can.
It is reading incredible amounts of energy, sir. Even more since we havetaken down the shield.
It worked well, sir. We have successfully reseeded the ozone layer. Butfor their atmosphere to maintain it's integrity, they can never use the shield.
May I help you, Mister Remmick?
Atmospheric entry seventy eight seconds.
Irrelevant, sir. Even if he restarts his engine now, he will not haveenough thrust to escape impact.
Twenty eight seconds to impact.
Six seconds to impact.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
All of the ship's records are available to you, sir.
Loyalty is not the issue, Commander. There is nothing wrong with Captain
Acceptable or not, sir, it is the truth.
I have no reports of any Federation ships in that area, sir.
Sir, I have analysed the residue from the explosions. This is of no known
I have located a vessel, sir. It is drifting.
The life support systems on the ship are failing, sir. Propulsion,navigation, and all communication, inoperative.
No, sir.
Yes, sir.
I have identified the vessel, Captain. It is the Batris, a general cargovessel.
It has restrictions. The information from Geordi's visor is so complex itis difficult to encode. Therefore the signal breaks down easily.
I am detecting high levels of deuterium gas, probably from the leakage inthe drive system.
Not as yet, sir. The life signs are emanating from the far side of
All routes are equally dangerous, sir.
There is no significant difference.
The life signs are very strong now, sir. They are coming from over there.
Negative. This is the only way. The safest way to proceed is for me tocross alone. The heat and toxic gases have less effect on me.
I've found them, sir. The door to their compartment is jammed.
The control mechanism's not operative, sir.
I advise against the use of phasers, sir. The gas buildup is too great.
Shall I, sir?
I believe I have found a quicker way out of here, sir.
He is alive, sir, but just barely.
As you wish.
Captain, long range sensors indicate another vessel approaching thisarea.
No, sir, not yet.
I believe, sir, that was the first time outsiders have witnessed the
It was a warning.
They are warning the dead, sir. Beware, a Klingon warrior is about toarrive.
The Klingon vessel is within range, sir. They are requesting visualcontact.
Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Visual on, sir.
The citizens of Minos gained fame during the Ersalrope wars as armsmerchants. They manufactured sophisticated and highly advanced weaponry.
Both.
Captain, readings correspond with the findings of the probe. No signs ofintelligent life forms. Vegetation and animal life only.
Disease?
Captain, we are being hailed.
Correct, sir. Something has scanned our language banks and is hailing us.
It is a recorded message, sir.
Commander, our communications are being monitored.
Since there is no intelligent life, the question is by what?
Over here.
Sir, other than ourselves, I am picking up no life signs here.
Commander Riker just has been encased in some kind of energy field.
Unknown.
DATA : He appears to be in some kind of stasis.
Typically, the purpose of such an enclosure is for storage.
He is alive. What appeared in the form of Captain Rice is an intelligencegathering device used during the Ersalrope Wars.
It projects an image of someone the subject will trust, gets as muchinformation as possible.
Possibly, but I will need to know the exact frequency and I cannotdetermine the risk to Commander Riker.
 This will take some time, sir.
Captain Picard?  I have a malfunction.
The close pass by the weapons must have disrupted our communicators.
Step back, please. I believe I have found it.
All vital signs returning to normal.
I am getting energy readings. Look out!
The product continues to upgrade and improve.
The weapons are appearing at intervals of precisely twelve minutes.
They are down there, sir.
I can do it, Commander.
Jump.
Eleven point seven five, sir.
I believe I can safely traverse the distance.
At your service, Captain.
Another weapon has been launched, sir.
I would need to see the programme schematic.
The target must be specific, sir.
The force of that explosion would destroy this cavern and everyone on thesurface.
The planet is Vagra Two, sir, in the Zed Lapis sector. Uninhabited.
Strange, sir. There's no emergency signal from the shuttle as yet.
There is little information in the library computer other than the factof its existence. Our sensor show no signs of life forms, virtually novegetation.
Minimum for our needs, sir.
No, sir. Our sensors are not fully penetrating whatever the debris is.
Yes, sir. I cannot explain.
Inconclusive, sir. I cannot tell you what it is, but I can tell you whatit is not.
There is no evidence of neural or circulatory systems. No internalorgans. Cellular structure unknown. It does not have any proteins which areknown to us.
I do not know, sir. It does not appear to have a skeletal framework ormusculature.
It appears to be following us, sir.
Insufficient information, sir.
DATA : Again, insufficient information, sir.
It is possible.
It seems to feed on our phaser energy.
She only wanted to get to Troi and Lieutenant Prieto.
Armus is capable of creating undefined forcefields. In effect, we arepowerless to communicate or use the transporter unless it allows it.
It did not register on the tricorder.
No. Clearly you are some kind of intelligent form.
Half metre to the right, Geordi.
No. You will just move it again, and I will not help you hurt him.
Enterprise?
DATA : Armus has enveloped Commander Riker.
I would guess that death is no longer sufficient entertainment toalleviate its boredom. Therefore, Commander Riker is alive.
I have no control over what you do with the phaser. Therefore, I wouldnot be the instrument of his death.
No, the control is still yours.
Curious.  You are capable of great sadism and cruelty.
I think you should be destroyed.
Sir, the purpose of this gathering confuses me.
My thoughts are not for Tasha, but for myself. I keep thinking how emptyit will feel without her presence. Did I miss the point?
DATA : Engineering, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. Bring all systemsonline and direct full power to the shields.
All sections secure, sir.
Captain, I'm reading an unusual number of sunspots and eruptiveprominences, sir. The magnetic field is extremely irregular.
If we are to investigate, sir, we must get closer.
The transmission is coming from a freighter in orbit around the fourthplanet in the system. However, the receiving station is on the third planet.
Captain, our sensors are being severely affected by the sun flares.
There are six life forms aboard the freighter, sir.
I will attempt it, sir.
Sir, I have determined what is malfunctioning on the freighter.
Your ship's design uses an electromagnetic coil to constrict the exhaustflow. That coil is misaligned.
Not very much, sir. The only recorded contact with the Delos system wasover two hundred years ago. A scout ship reported two inhabited planets, one ofwhich was on the verge of acquiring space travel.
Our computer has downloaded the specifications for the magnetic coils thefreighters depend on. Assuming the malfunction is similar, suitablereplacements can be fabricated.
Aye, sir.
I would estimate four billion, three hundred seventy five million
No doubt you have applied your technology from other industries to therefinement of this product.
Fascinating. Your society is dedicated exclusively to the production of asingle product.
Beginning several thousand years ago, the two worlds took differentpaths. Ornara became technologically sophisticated, Brekka did not. Then twohundred years ago, Ornara was stricken by a devastating plague.
Somehow, and there is limited information on this point, the cure wasfound in a plant indigenous to only Brekka, and which resisted all attempts atcultivation on Ornara.
I will continue this in the guest quarters. Commander,
Voluntary addiction to drugs is a recurrent theme in many cultures.
Sensors show nothing, sir, but it appears a moment in time repeateditself exactly for everyone.
Computers were also affected, which would indicate the phenomenon was notan illusion but occurred in real time.
A highly respected scientist, considered a visionary, he advanced severaltime-related theories. One regarding the relationships between time and gravitywas quite intriguing. But neither that theory nor any other received wideacceptance.
Actually sir, that may be an incorrect analogy.
A hiccup is a spasmodic inhalation with closure of the glottis.accompanied by a peculiar sound. If we were to continue this analogy to a bodyfunction, what occurred would be best represented by a
All I have found sir, is what you already know. Manheim was concentratingon time gravity experiments when he left.
Sensors indicate it is Vandor Four, a planetoid in elliptical orbitaround the binary system.
No, sir.
Do you know the nature of Doctor Manheim's work?
Because of the dense gravity of the pulsar.
Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are now beingfelt in the Ilecom system.
Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are now beingfelt in the Ilecom system.
DATA 2: I feel no disorientation.
Nor do I.
I believe what could be termed the Manheim Effect is becoming morepronounced.
Oh, we are us, sir, but they are also us. So indeed, we are both us atdifferent points along the same time continuum.
We have completed a scan of the planet surface.
Our sensors show an immense volume of energy emanating deep within theplanet, and concentrated near Manheim's remaining laboratory.
I cannot be sure, sir, but I believe Manheim has developed a method forharnessing energy from the pulsar.
I would need to study Manheim's records.
I am fully versed, sir, on all your theories regarding time and gravity.
I am an android.
I am the only one, sir.
Then you have harnessed a dynamic energy source.
The range is at least several thousand light years.
If what the Professor has given me is accurate, it is possible to repairthe damage. But it must be perfectly timed to coincide with another timedistortion episode. 
I believe so, sir.
If Doctor Manheim's information is correct, by my calculations, the nexttime distortion should occur between twenty eight to forty seven minutes.
In both cases, the time distortions occurred along the same continuum asa preview or a reprise of a specific point in time.
It is reasonable, sir. After all, I am a machine and dispensable.
Oh, I see, sir. That is quite true, sir. I see time as a constant,whereas humans perceive time as flexible. Hence the expression, times flieswhen you're having fun, which until now has always confused me.
Sir?
I will go immediately, sir.
Enterprise.
I am proceeding to the lab, sir.
Aye, sir.
Doctor Manheim forgot to mention one of his security precautions, sir. Iam proceeding into the laboratory.
This appears to be the instrument Doctor Manheim described. It shouldconfirm when the next time effect will occur.
I will know in a moment, sir. According to calculations, the next timeeffect will occur in one minute thirty seconds.
I will need to add a specific amount of antimatter to rebalance and alignthe system.
Theoretically, yes. In reality I do not know.
When the effect hits, the forcefields will align, opening a cleanstraight path to the other dimension. Whatever the time distortion, I must addthe antimatter at the appropriate moment. Geordi, if the Professor was right, Iwill need a twenty seven second countdown.
Captain, I now have the antimatter and am moving towards the opening atthe end of the lab. The next time distortion should occur within seconds.
DATA 3: Captain, there appear to be three of us.
DATA 1: Should I drop the antimatter or wait for one of you?
DATA 3: Only one of us is at the correct time continuum.
DATA 1: Which one?
DATA 2: Me. It's me.
Yes, sir.
It is well patched, sir. Closed indicates a permanent condition, which Icannot guarantee.
With pleasure, sir.
I see. So the difficulty in attaining such complex positioning in zerogravity environment, coupled with the adverse effect it would have on thepsychological well being of the average human male, is what makes this anecdoteso amusing. Yes. Very humorous indeed. Hysterical, in fact.
You are aware, Counsellor, that the holodeck can be programmed torecreate an oceanic environment.
One can swim in moonlight?
Commander Riker. I am receiving a Code Forty Seven.
It is a Code Forty Seven, sir. Starfleet emergency frequency.
Dytallix B is one of seven uninhabited planets mined for the Federationby the Dytallix Mining Company. It is in the nearby Mira system.
I have the readout on Dytallix B, Commander.
Dytallix B is the fifth of six planets circling the red giant known as
I believe the answer to both questions is no, sir. In a manner ofspeaking, it is nothing but a lifeless hunk of rock, a useless ball of mud, aworthless chunk
The third is just coming into range now, sir. It is Ambassador Classheavy cruiser, USS Horatio.
Three, sir. All gathered inside what appears to be the entrance to amining tunnel.
At that speed sir, we should arrive nine point six three hours behind theoriginal schedule, sir.
Computer, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. Please access all Starfleet
Startling. Quite extraordinary, in fact.
That was not a request. I was simply talking to myself. A humanidiosyncrasy, triggered by fascination with a particular set of facts. Orsometimes brought about by senility. Or used as a means of weighing informationbefore reaching a conclusion. Or, as a
Please continue with record scan. Intriguing.
Perhaps we can. My orders were to search for abnormal patterns in
These are various outposts and starbases where I have detected unusualactivity over the past few months.
An uncustomary reshuffling of personnel, usually in the command areas.
The orders were given with great subtlety. To use an aphorism,
I believe it is a clandestine attempt to control vital sectors of
There is insufficient data to make such an assessment, sir.
Why not?
Nothing so far, sir.
Captain. I am now receiving a message from Starfleet Command.
Aye, sir.
DATA : Lieutenant Worf, if the situation is under control, please report tothe Bridge.
Captain, I have attempted to trace the message Remmick was sending. Ibelieve it was aimed at an unexplored sector of our galaxy.
I believe it was a beacon.
Yes, sir. A homing beacon, sent from Earth.
Commander, request permission to investigate this vehicle.
It is a piece of history. The opportunity to examine such an ancientvehicle does not come around very often, and as you pointed out, we do have thetime.
Thank you, sir.
Minimal oxygen atmosphere. An ancient solar generator, still operating.
The on-board computers have ceased functioning. I may be able to downloadthis old style disk drive back to the Enterprise.
Not necessary.
The seal was broken and the environment has been corrupted.
This one is empty.
If that were the purpose, there would be evidence of a more sophisticatedmonitoring system. These containers were designed solely for refrigeration.
We have run into an unusual situation, sir. There are people onboard. Frozen.
Three. The vehicle has suffered severe damage. Most of her systems havefailed.
I do not believe we should leave them here, sir. With your permission, wewill be returning with three containers.
I could not leave them there, Captain. The condition of their vehicle wasdeteriorating.
I see your point, Captain, but at the time it seemed the proper thing todo.
I was able to retrieve some information from the ancient disk I removedfrom the module's computer. Her name is Clare Raymond, age thirty five,occupation homemaker. Must be some kind of construction work.
His name is Ralph Offenhouse, age fifty five, occupation financier.
Much of his file we could not retrieved. His name is L Q Sonny Clemonds.
By your calendar two thousand three hundred sixty four.
Actually there is a distinct difference between an android and a robot.
You were in a space module.
Hooey? Ah, as in hogwash, malarky, jive. An intentional fabrication.
Actually, the process of cryonics was never more than a fad, and did notcontinue much beyond the mid-twenty first century.
Talk.
Is there something wrong?
I believe he means television, sir. That particular form of entertainmentdid not last much beyond the year two thousand forty.
What is to be done with them, sir?
Commander, a low mileage pit woofie?
These are the most unusual humans I have ever encountered.
Since we have no contact with the Romulans for fifty three years, sevenmonths, eighteen days, we must consider that the information we do have, is outof date.
The strategy is built on a single premise. The hostile intent of the
It was a passenger liner which mostly travelled Earth's Atlantic Oceanduring the late twentieth and early twenty first centuries.
You asked to see me.
A celebration?
I will speak to the Captain.
Inquiry. You do not seem to be having as much difficulty adjusting toyour current circumstances as the others.
No, but the computer can replicate such an instrument.
I must leave now.
It is a buffer between the Romulan Empire and the Federation.
I do not know.
No, that would not be appropriate.
Captain, there is nothing left of Outpost Delta Zero Five.
Sensors indicate no evidence of conventional attack.
The condition is identical, Captain.
Negative, sir.
Sensors indicate all of their systems are armed, sir.
That offer does present a certain fascination.
Engineering, this is Science One. I have just observed what appeared tobe a random energy transference.
DATA : Aft. Outboard of the port nacelle.
Possibility, sir. An unexplained power fluctuation.
Aye, sir.
Pulaski, sir.
Aye, sir.
Captain, this is a life form. Not to allow it to develop naturally woulddeny us the opportunity to study it.
Captain, the final manifest has been received.
Aye, sir.
Worf, assemble your security team in Sickbay.
Yes, Doctor. Captain's orders.
Perhaps I could serve in that capacity.
Nervous? I find this very interesting. Although I understand, intechnical terms, how life is formed, there is still a part of the process whicheludes me. The child inside you, are you able to access his thought process?
How does it feel?
Yes?
Now? Now! Doctor! Doctor! Doctor!
Thank you for allowing me to participate. It was remarkable.
Two hours nineteen minutes, sir.
Data.
My name. It is pronounced Data.
You called me Data.
One is my name. The other is not.
It indicates a genetically engineered biological life form.
Query. Eager beaver?
Aye, sir. Excuse me, Doctor.
Computer, run diagnostic on module L seven three.
Perhaps it is a sensor malfunction. Computer, inquiry. Is growth actuallyoccurring in module L seven three?
A subspace phase inverter.
Certain cyanoacrylates.
Commander, the child is the source of the unusual radiation.
That analysis is correct.
Aye, sir.
DATA : Stand by to energise.
There it is again. An area of blackness.
Nothing, sir.
Sir, our sensors are showing that to be an absence of everything. It is avoid without matter or energy of any kind.
Perhaps. Perhaps not, sir.
Captain, the most elementary and valuable statement in science, thebeginning of wisdom, is I do not know. I do not know what that is, sir.
Accessing. Negative, sir. There is no record of any Federation vesselencountering anything remotely like this.
All the probe's systems are functioning perfectly.
Unknown, sir.
Still no readings of any kind, sir.
Whatever it is, sir, we seem to be inside it.
No response, Captain.
Difficult to make a judgment, sir, based on the absence of information.
This void has a total lack of dimension. Therefore, by any acceptedstandard, it does not exist, yet being within it denies that conclusion.
Could a lack of dimension be another dimension in itself?
Inertial guidance shows one point four parsecs travelled, Captain.
Except that we are still in it, sir. Captain, if we dropped a stationarybeacon and travelled straight away from it, we would have a fixed point ofreference to confirm speed and distance.
The beacon is in place, Captain.
The beacon is falling astern, Captain.
Captain, we are receiving a signal from dead ahead.
Closing on the new signal, sir.
Captain, it is the stationary beacon we just released.
Captain, sensors can locate no debris from the Romulan ship.
USS Enterprise to USS Yamato. Respond, please. USS Enterprise calling USS
Life support system, engineering and propulsion all appear functional.
Since we know nothing of these circumstances, it is at least conceivable,sir.
We've regained ship's communication, sir.
Confirm, sir. Navigation is possible.
I cannot make the lock, sir.
Captain.
Add to it an attack by a nonexistent Romulan vessel. It does suggest aninteresting question. Was our away team actually over there?
I have lost contact, sir.
Captain, it is not in the same sector, but another opening has appeared.
I've lost the signal, sir.
Captain.
Captain, sensors show nothing out there. Absolutely nothing.
Nagilum?
Perhaps referring to your gender, Doctor?
Sensors still show nothing out there.
All evidence indicates it is willing and able to do what it proposes.
Sir. I do not believe there is anything you can do to prevent it.
I have a question, sir.
What is death?
Which do you believe, sir?
I agree with her, Jean-Luc.
Yes. It is wrong of you to force us.
DATA : Captain, we are clear. We are out of the void.
We are out of the void, sir. You may stop auto-destruct.
All navigational systems confirm we are at warp six on course, sir.
Is there a problem? Chief Engineer La Forge called for me, urgent.
Geordi, I just had a strange conversation with your assistant. Althoughit is three days until we rendezvous with starship Victory, she
Most unusual.
But, Geordi, your Starfleet specialty is antimatter power, dilithiumregulators
This is not a computer simulation?
Geordi, your message said urgent.
My Watson?
Ah, yes. That does seem only fair.
He can be reached at 221B Baker Street.
Computer, select at random a mystery by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, where Iwill play Sherlock Holmes and Lieutenant La Forge will be Doctor John Watson.
Excellent.
Holmes collected nothing, neither trinkets nor thoughts, which were notspecifically significant to him.
The emerald tie pin. Presented to Holmes by Queen Victoria after hesolved the theft of the Bruce-Partington Plans.  A copy of Whitaker's
Primarily as Doctor Watson, you will keep a written record of everything
Merely throwing myself into the part, Watson.
Watson, we are about to have guests.
Be a good fellow and answer that. Let's not keep the Inspector waiting.
Lestrade of course.
Then may I say your perturbation becomes you, Inspector Lestrade, whilstsimultaneously affording me yet again the opportunity to serve Queen andcountry.
Absolutely.
Watson. Pray continue, Inspector.
I believe you will find, Inspector, that this emissary here works not forbut against the King of Bohemia, and that photograph of the king and hismistress is to be used as blackmail. Further, upon deeper reflection, you willdeduce, as did I, that
Geordi, where are you going? Geordi?
 But, but, Geordi, I was just about to reveal thatthe sir is in fact a madam
To solve a Sherlock Holmes mystery.
Then I should have extended the sequence of events.
Is that not exactly what we were doing.
Am I so different from you, Doctor? Are you able to cease thinking oncommand?
Are you suggesting that there is some value in losing?
I have read them all.
I accept your challenge, Doctor.
We will return to the holodeck, where I will dare it to defeat me. Andyou, Madam, are invited to be a witness.
Come, Watson.
There. I have instructed the computer to give us a Sherlock Holmes-typeproblem, but not one written specifically by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Exactly. Will that be sufficient, Doctor?
This is no larger than the holodeck, of course, so the computer adjustsby placing images of more distant perspectives on the holodeck walls
No. It is a ruse. This way.
The running youth was a ploy. The real crime is here. And the intendedvictim is that man. Mister Jabez Wilson, employee of the Red Headed League,dupe of a gang of criminals.
I saw the plaque 'The Home of the Red Headed League' and this ropedangling from the bell, which enabled me to deduce that Mister Jabez Wilson washeaded here to meet a most distasteful and untimely demise. From this.
Reasoning. From the general to the specific. Is that not the verydefinition of deduction? Is that not the way Sherlock Holmes worked?
For whatever finds us, my dear Watson.
She has been abducted.
The good Doctor.
Watson, the doctor has been carried off by two men. One is tall. Theother is shorter, left handed, and is employed in a laboratory.
One set of footfalls are widely spaced. The other is evenly spaced,closer together. Further, on the ground you can see the swirling scrapes madeby his left shoe as he twists behind, presumably to see if he is beingfollowed. Left footed means left handed. The dark colouring of the scrapes arethe leavings of natural rubber, a type of non-conductive soles used byresearchers experimenting with electricity. Finally, there can be no argument,the game is afoot! Come, Watson!
Hear that? What do those footfalls tell you, Watson?
More particularly, that our opposition does indeed consist of two men,and that one of them is carrying the bound and gagged Doctor Pulaski.
Not at all. Because we do not hear the doctor's footfalls, we must assumethat she is being carried. And since we do not hear her cries for help, we knowthat she is gagged. Further both sets of footfalls are heavy and masculine. Oneman seems to shuffle and stumble in an irregular pattern. Since the ground islevel, we must conclude that Doctor Pulaski is struggling against one of hercaptor, sporadically knocking him off stride. Deduction, pure and simple. well,not that simple.
There they are again, Watson. I dare say we have caught up rather nicelywith our quarry.
There should be a doorway.
There is nothing here of relevance. I do not see how this connects withthe disappearance of the Doctor.
Doctor Kate Pulaski. But do not concern yourself, Inspector. You haveenough on your mind.
No. Look at his shoes. He's more a convict, released today from Dartmoorprison.  He spent the day in a tavernconsuming large quantities of gin with his killer, who followed him to thisspot and waited over there until the victim slipped into a drunken stupor.
And when you check, I believe you will find that this poor soul is thevictim's common-law wife, who has been dreading the release of this a vile andabusive man.
Not with her hands, no. But with this.  When used as agarrote, these beads will leave marks quite similar to fingerprints. And, mydear Watson, you will note from the victim's throat, the marks are too evenlyspaced to be have been made by human hands.
Not really, Inspector. And now, for strictly personal reasons, I mustleave. Come, Watson. This murder does not connect with our case.
Yes.
I do not know, and that is what puzzles me.
No.
We will find Doctor Pulaski in here.
It is the only obvious choice.
Not any more. He wants us to find him.
The master criminal. The man Holmes could only defeat at the cost of hisown life at Reichenbach Falls. Our adversary, my dear Watson, is none otherthan Professor Moriarty himself.
And a trail, which is so well marked, that obviously we are meant tofollow it.
No, Watson. Not a dead end at all. Hello, what's this? Can you see thescratches?
Professor Moriarty, I presume.
He is the one worthy opponent created by the author, Conan Doyle.
Where is Doctor Pulaski?
She would not have told you anything.
Have you injured her?
Say nothing.
Computer, exit!
Computer, execute complete shutdown of the Holodeck.
Explain.
We must see the Captain.
This.
He does. Moriarty.
Nor do I.
No. She is in grave danger.
Captain, this character, Moriarty, he called for the arch.
And perhaps our library files as well, sir. That level of informationwould be necessary in order to create a true adversary for me.
He is still a fictional character, sir, originally programmed withnineteenth century knowledge.
Only time, sir.
Captain, I believe that would place the Doctor at risk. It is probableour mortality failsafe has been overridden.
There can be only one explanation. In programming Moriarty to defeat me,not Holmes, he had to be able to acquire something which I possess.
Consciousness, sir. Without it he could not defeat me.
I will change into my uniform, sir.
Captain?
Captain, this holographic image differs from any I have ever seen. Couldhe have actually injured you?
We will find Moriarty this way, sir. The warehouse.
Congratulations, Professor, I capitulate to the better man. Your victory,sir, is well earned.
I can affect this vessel, and I can inflict bodily harm on you, andon your Doctor.
Sensor readings show it to be a small class-nine vessel, probably aninterplanetary cargo ship.
I have its call sign now, sir.
Its cargo holds are empty. The readout shows its guidance system ismalfunctioning. The pilot is attempting to hold course manually.
Rogue? Ah. Cad, knave, rake, rascal, villain, wild element.
Sexual attraction in this context is not a part of my programming. I am anandroid.
Ah. Of course it is.
No.
No.
From alcohol? That is not possible for me, sir.
The act or the emotion?
I believe that statement to be inaccurate, sir.
I doubt that statement is entirely accurate either, sir.
I do not understand.
Of course I do. It is a witticism, a gag, a bon mot, a fluctuation ofwords concluding with a trick ending.
Right over there, sir. Why?
So you agree with Okona that I am missing a very important human factor.
I am capable of that function when it is expected of me.
Of course I do. It is a witticism, a gag, a bon mot, a fluctuation of
But why?
Have I said something to offend you?
Then why are you annoyed?
Humanoid.
You told a joke.
I am not laughing.
Perhaps the joke was not funny.
Are you sure?
I agree. What do I do?
Computer, I wish to know more about humour. Why certain combinations ofwords and actions make humans laugh.
Animated presentation, humanoid. Interaction required.
Of all performers available, who is considered funniest?
No. Too esoteric. More generic.
That one. RW nine six three two one, twentieth century.
Mister Comic, I wish to know what is funny.
Tip O'Neill. Accessing. Twentieth century male, politician, overweight,wearing female clothing, carrying a valise that looks like a fish. So, thejuxtaposition of gender and an amphibian briefcase is funny.
Nothing makes me laugh. I wish to learn. COMIC: How much time do we havehere?
Unlimited.
Tough room? A colloquialism meaning a severe, rigid, closed-mindedaudience. I understand. I will attempt to be an easy room. Show me what isfunny.
I am an android.
That is considered to be funny?
Ah, a word that ends in K. So, if you put funny teeth in your mouth andjump around like an idiot, that is considered funny.
Data.
That does not apply. I simply want to know what is funny. I want to beable to involve myself in other people's laughter. I wish to join in.
Access faster.
A guy walks into the doctor's office The doctor tells him you need anoperation. The guy says I want a second opinion. The doctor said, okay, you'reugly too. Ba-boom boom. Was that funny?
My timing is digital.  What?
Why?
 A monk, a clone and a Ferengi decide to gobowling together.
I will be back.
Sensors show it to be an interplanetary vessel, sir. Class seven, crewcomplement twenty six.
It is slowing and is holding its position, Captain.
Similar in specifications and capabilities, but a variation in markingsand hailing language.
Sensors indicate it a security vessel from the planet Straleb.
A Klingon fly, half the size of an Earth mosquito, with no sting and abuzzing sound like this.
I have reinstated the same programme.
Comic, continue.
I told a joke.
No one laughed.
She said I spoiled the joke.
Computer. Programme an audience appropriate to this venue.
Good evening ladies and germs.  I come from a town so small, we had a fraction for a zip code.
It was so small in fact we didn't have a godfather of crime, we had anephew. 
It was a holodeck audience. They were programmed to laugh at everything.
No, but there is nothing more uniquely human.
Goodbye, Data.
Was that funny? Accessing. Ah. Burns and Allen, Roxy Theater, New York
Take my Worf. Please.
DATA : Come in.
DATA : Geordi? Is Counsellor Troi with you?
DATA : Indeed. Or, stated more correctly, I wanted you to see me.
DATA : Please.
It is a beard, Geordi. A fine, full, dignified beard. One which commandsrespect and projects thoughtfulness and dignity. Well? Opinions?
When I stroke the beard thusly, do I not appear more intellectual?
Why was she laughing?
You do now.
Data to Enterprise.
We are inside Graves' home.
DATA : All is quiet so far. Of course, no one knew we were coming.
Understood, sir. I suggest we look around to see if anybody is home.
Lieutenant Commander Data
Quite correct, sir! Did you know Doctor Soong?
I have noticed, Doctor
I have noticed, Grandpa, that you keep repeating the same notes of amusical phrase I am unfamiliar with.
What happens to this man?
A happy ending. The mechanical man gets his wish.
But pain is unpleasant, is it not?
Desire? To long for, to crave, a wish, a request, a
No. I do not suppose I will ever really know.
Funny. I have had great difficulty determining what funny is.
You mentioned your impending death, Grandpa. May I say you face it withremarkable courage and stoicism.
You condone homicide, sir?
Really, Grandpa?
But the Doctor
That is not necessarily true, Grandpa. I do have an off button, if youwill. Its activation robs me of my consciousness, therefore rendering me deadfor all intents and purposes. It is not something I enjoy contemplating.
That will not be necessary, Doctor. He is gone.
It happened just a few moments ago, in my arms. Ira Graves is dead.
To do so would have been pointless. All things must pass. May I go now,sir?
We will try to honour him in the manner in which he specified, will wenot, sir?
I am glad, sir. It was his dying wish.
You always did love the sky. A stargazer. That is what you are.
Ira never told you how beautiful you were to him. He never told you that,did he? He could not tell you, do you understand?
He wanted to. Every waking moment. And he wanted you to know that. Youwere everything to him.
I believe I have a few words to say, sir.  Justlook at that face. The face of a thinker. A warrior. A man for all seasons.
I'm almost finished, sir.
I am sorry, sir. Perhaps it was my admiration for Grandpa that got thebest of me.
That is the way I think of him, sir. My only living relative, no longerliving.
I was only trying to carry out his wishes. I just wanted to keep mypromise to him.
Yes, sir. I will work on staying within myself.
Thank you, sir.
Verbal composition at it's most sophisticated level. Your child-like mindcannot appreciate the timeworn wisdom of my words.
When you get to be my age, you will understand.
You are only as old as you feel. Try to remember that, boy.
I am many things. Scholar, Artist, philosopher, lover, genius.
Yes, I'm aware of your interest in her.
Nothing sir. Nothing at all.
I detest hypocrisy. I wish they would just come out and admit it!
That your interest in Kareen is not purely professional. Try as you will,you cannot win her heart. She does not care for older men. Or men of limitedintellect. 
I understand. I understand all too well. Removing the competition willnot help you, Picard.
If you wish to apologise, I am prepared to listen.
You were a bit rude to me. Might make you feel better if you said youwere sorry.
That is ridiculous. I am as healthy as a Rigelian ox.
Sickbay? Are you ill, Captain?
I am sure that will not be necessary, Captain. I am fully capable ofrunning a circuit check on myself. It will immediately determine anyabnormalities.
Just as I expected. I am fine. Could not be better.
Why should I? This concerns me more than it does any of you.
It was a waste of time then and it is a waste of time now.
Hello, Kareen. Don't you think it's time we stopped pretending? You knowwho I am.
You do know who I am.
It is me. I am here. I am alive.
I deactivated Data and transferred my mind into his frame. I neverimagined how much of my self I would retain. My feelings, my dreams.
How can they? It is my body now. It is out of their hands.
Something wonderful has happened. I can take a deep breath now withoutfeeling stabbing pain. I will never have to face death again. Think of thethings I will accomplish over the next thousand years! What? Oh, I know whatyou're thinking. There is no need to worry. I will create an android body foryou, too. We can witness the end of time together. Why are you crying, Kareen?
I can hear you coming, Captain. My ears are better than the averagedog's, you know.
Of course you do.
I cannot allow that.
I had every right, Captain. I am man, he is machine. There is no questionwho must live and what must die.
Data? Before me, he was nothing. Just a walking tin can with circuits forintestines. Pathetic. Without heart, a man is meaningless. I would not come uphere if I were you, Captain. I might not like it.
You are most fortunate, my dear Captain, that I am not a violent man.
 This is not my fault. They told me I was not supposedto be up here. They should not have done that.
This is idiotic.
These were all accidents. I did not intend
No, I live here now.
Data is dead.
Data is not human! He is
No!
How many? How many more accidents?
Geordi.
May I ask a question?
Quite correct. Then may I ask another question after this one?
Why am I lying on the floor in this undignified position with the four ofyou standing over me, displaying expressions of concern?
Not a thing.
Perhaps it is best that I do not remember. I trust I did nothingunbecoming to a Starfleet officer?
Did I win?
Thank you.
The factions on Solais Five are historical enemies. So many have diedthat both societies are on the verge of extinction.
The factions have been at war for fifteen centuries.
I do not know what you mean.
Unknown, sir.
Aye, sir.
I have eliminated all but five distinct forms of signing. I will learnthem all. Computer, show me gestural language designation M nine.
The use of gestures and hand signals pre dates the spoken word in mostcultures. The major exception being the Leyrons of Malkus Nine who actuallydeveloped a written language first. Computer, continue presentation. Increase.
Captain, I have reviewed and stored five distinct signing languages. Hereis an example of the first. This is blue. This is a blue ocean. This is a blueocean at sunset. This is two people walking along the beach by a blue ocean atsunset. This is two happy people in love walking along the beach by a blueocean at sunset. This is two people
It was my fault. I am responsible for their deaths. In my arrogance Ithought no one could possibly harm the great Riva. I am such a fool.
They were more than my interpreters. They were also my friends. They werea part of me. I did not realise how much a part until now.
I cannot. I will not.
Someone else will have to speak with them, not me. Not after what Iallowed to happen/ How could I?
When Data speaks for me, can you hear my anguish, my despair? Data is afine machine, but he cannot take the place of my chorus. It took years todevelop a communication. That cannot be easily replaced.
I cannot help them. Captain, please take me back to Ramatis.
You would be better off without my help.
You want to know if I had some special technique?
There is no trick. I had no magic.
Yes, my Chorus was special. They allowed me to combine differentperceptions.
Not really. My technique was to look for some thing, no matter how small,that was common to both groups, and then to begin a process where one person orone group expresses themselves to each other.
Yes, but what is even more difficult is to get each side to listen,really listen to each other, and to understand.
You are very good with people.
The real secret is turning disadvantage to advantage.
That is an interesting. It would give them something in common. 
Thank you. Thank me? Ah!
 Put the table over there.
Light the torches to let them know that I am back.
You may leave whenever you choose. I will send out a message when I amready to go.
Yes, it is turning a disadvantage into an advantage. Learning sign willbe a part of their process of learning how to live together in peace.
And that is the first and most important aspect of any relationship.
These people have been fighting all of their lives. They know onlyhatred, suspicion, and fear. Even with my Chorus, I could not have changedtheir attitudes in a day. We have a chance. They want the talks to besuccessful.
Thank you for your concern. I will be fine.  And thank you, foreverything.
DATA : Captain, we are picking up a faint distress signal on an opensubspace frequency. It appears to be coming from an adjacent sector.
Aye, sir. A voice only transmission from the USS Lantree, a Federationsupply ship.
We are still receiving their signal, Captain, but there is no message.
Two point two milli-parsecs, bearing three zero at one four five degrees.
The Lantree is a Class Six Federation supply ship assigned to Gamma sevensector, Captain L.I. Telaka commanding. Normal complement, twenty six officersand crew.
Class three defensive only.
Aye, sir.
No life signs, Captain.
All systems seem functional, Captain. Everything is in perfect order.
I have verified receipt of the access codes for the Lantree, Captain.
The Lantree computer reports access codes received and accepted, sir.
We have override control of her Bridge, Captain. All systems answering.
You sent for me, Doctor?
Certainly. I took advanced training in the operation of auxiliary spacevessels at Starfleet Academy, where I received
You're certain the Captain approved this, Doctor?
Begin shuttlecraft launch sequence.
We are in position, Doctor.
And if they are not?
That is by no means certain, Doctor, but I was referring to you.
Ready to transport.
DATA : You have the coordinates, Chief O'Brien.
DATA : Standing by.
How could you, Doctor? He has not said anything.
All systems are functioning within normal specifications, Doctor.
Bedside manner?
Doctor?
Holding.
What is your condition, Doctor?
Shall I set course for Darwin Station?
The evidence is fairly conclusive.
The Lantree logs indicated that only one crewman had any illness prior toarrival here. The First Officer had a mild case of Thelusian flu.
On a molecular genetic level?
The answer, I believe, Doctor. The Lantree was not the source of thedisease, but it was the trigger.
The Lantree's First Officer exposed your children to Thelusian flu forthe first time. Their active immune systems set out to attack the virus, andonce it was triggered, it kept going. The antibody created an unexpected side-effect. It alters the genetic make-up of normal humans. This is a comparison ofthe normal and altered DNA. These are the two molecules that have beentransposed.
Is irreversible.
I am sorry I could not be more helpful, Doctor Pulaski.
Doctor
Enterprise. Commander Data ready to beam aboard.
Thank you, sir.
It is not reversible, sir. The subtle molecular transposition of
As normal as ever, sir.
Interesting. However, theoretically,
Yes, sir.
No, sir. Her records were shipped by way of Starfleet headquarters. Theyhave not caught up with us yet.
Hair brush.
It has a follicle, sir. Live cells.
Doctor.
There she is, Captain.
We are approaching Starbase one seven nine.
Starbase one seven nine. We are ready to commence transfer.
Aye, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Viewscreen on. Focus on area. Magnification factor ten. Increasemagnification to fifty.
The substance appears to be a rare form of subatomic bacteria, capable ofdoubling itself in size every fifteen minutes. It seems to be reacting with twoof the compounds present in the Enterprise structure.
How did you come to that decision?
Aye, sir.
According to the rate of reproduction, there should be a twelvecentimetre opening in the Klingon hull at this time.
It will take some time to locate them, sir. They are on undesignatedmanoeuvres in the Pheben system.
Slow to impulse.
The Pagh is either cloaked or destroyed, sir.
Considering the absence of debris, Captain, it is reasonable to assumethe Klingon vessel is in the area and cloaked.
And since we do not know it's intent, I recommend we go to Red Alert.
He's only dazed, sir.
It has all armament locked on us and ready to fire.
O'Brien and Riker aresitting down for an evening's entertainment)
That would seem to be superstition.
This game is exceedingly simple. With only fifty two cards, twenty one ofwhich I will see, and four other players, there are a limited number of winningcombinations.
Of course. The bets will indicate of the relative strength of each hand.
I too.
I bet ten.
I bet five.
I bet ten.
Is that what is known as a poker face?
I fold.
You had nothing!
It makes very little sense to bet when you cannot win.
How could you tell?
My condition does not alter with the passage of time, Commander.
And was the sole member of the committee to oppose my entrance on thegrounds that I was not a sentient being.
It sounds intriguing.
You've constructed a positronic brain?
Have you determined how the electron resistance across the neuralfilaments is to be resolved?
That would seem to be a necessary first step.
But if the answer is not forthcoming, your model will not function.
Captain, I believe his basic research lacks the specifics necessary tosupport an experiment of this magnitude.
You sent for me, sir?
I find myself in complete agreement with that assessment of thesituation, sir.
I will not submit to the procedure, sir.
Sir, Lieutenant La Forge's eyes are far superior to human biologicaleyes. True? Then why are not all human officers required to have their eyesreplaced with cybernetic implants?  I see. It is preciselybecause I am not human.
Is it not customary to request permission before entering an individual'squarters?
Reduced to the mere facts of the events. The substance, the flavour ofthe moment, could be lost. Take games of chance.
Yes, I had read and absorbed every treatise and textbook on the subject,and felt myself well prepared for the experience. Yet, when I finally playedpoker, I discovered that the reality bore little resemblance to the rules.
That while I believe it is possible to download the information containedin the positronic brain, I do not think you have acquired the expertisenecessary to preserve the essence of those experiences. There is an ineffablequality to memory which I do not believe can survive your procedure.
No, sir, I am not under your nor anyone else's command. I have resignedfrom Starfleet.
I regret the decision, but I must. I am the culmination of one man'sdream. This is not ego or vanity, but when Doctor Soong created me he added tothe substance of the universe. If by your experiments I am destroyed, somethingunique, something wonderful will be lost. I cannot permit that, I must protecthis dream.
With the application of a little care, Wes, the paper can be utilisedagain.
The Dream of the Fire, by K'Ratak. Thank you, Worf.
Excuse me, please.
Is something wrong?
No one regrets that necessity more than myself. You do understand myreasons?
As Doctor Pulaski would at this juncture, no doubt, remind us, life israrely fair.
I shall miss you, Geordi.
I see. From limitless options I am reduced to none, or rather one. I canonly hope that Commander Maddox is more capable than it would appear.
Captain, I have complete confidence in your ability to represent myinterests.
An android.
Webster's Twenty Fourth Century Dictionary, Fifth Edition, defines anandroid as an automaton made to resemble a human being.
Sir?
Doctor Noonien Soong.
The foremost authority in cybernetics.
Human?
I have an ultimate storage capacity of eight hundred quadrillion bits. Mytotal linear computational speed has been rated at sixty trillion operationsper second.
My medals.
I do not know, sir. I suppose none. I just wanted them. Is that vanity?
A gift from you, sir.
Yes, sir.
It is a reminder of friendship and service.
I would prefer not to answer that question, sir. I gave my word.
She was special to me, sir. We were intimate.
I am taking part in a legal hearing to determine my rights and status. Am
My right to choose. Perhaps my very life.
I formally refuse to undergo your procedure.
Thank you. And, Commander, continue your work. When you are ready, I willstill be here. I find some of what you propose intriguing.
Sir, there is a celebration on the Holodeck.
Because you failed in your task?
Yes, sir.
Is it not true that had you refused to prosecute, Captain Louvois wouldhave ruled summarily against me?
That action injured you, and saved me. I will not forget it.
Not yet, sir. But with your help, I am learning.
Sir, we are approaching Klavdia Three.
Sir, the planet's troposphere is distorting our signal.
Aye, sir.
You wanted to see me?
Salia of Daled Four.
Little is known. She was born on Daled Four. Her parents were fromopposite sides in a civil war which has lasted for centuries. They both diedshortly after her birth. A Federation ship brought her and her governess to
It is hoped she will unite the factions and bring peace.
What puzzles me, Captain, is how she is expected to bring peace to Daled
Only that it is the difference between night and day.
Did I? What I meant, sir, is that Daled Four rotates only once perrevolution. Therefore one side is constantly dark, and the other sideconstantly light. One might surmise that the two hemispheres have developeddisparate cultures, which is a major cause of most wars.
It should be that simple, Wesley. Judging by her appearance it is likelyyou and Salia are biologically compatible. Of course, there could be adifference in the histocompatibility complex in the cell membrane, but.
The troposphere appears to be distorting our signals. It is fascinating,
Sir, sensors indicate the communication originated from a terawatt sourceon the planet.
It is what is needed to penetrate the atmosphere.
The Yamato log should be in our computer by rendezvous, sir.
Sir?
No, sir. It might be due to problems currently being experienced by the
Sensors indicate no life readings, sir.
Unknown, sir.
No, sir. None.
Personal log. We've been spotted by a Romulan cruiser, but afterplaying hide and seek through several solar systems, I think I've managed toelude them.  The Iconian probe scan. Was it an attempt atcommunication? If only I knew what we were dealing with here. 
Aye, sir. We have a visual record.
No, sir. It appears to be a scanner. Possibly a transmitter.
Unknown, sir.
In orbit around a planet at coordinates two two seven mark three fivenine, sir.
Twelve hours sixteen minutes, sir.
Scanning, sir.
No life-form readings, sir.
Approximately two hundred thousand years, sir.
Its size and composition match the probe which scanned the Yamato, sir.
Consider, Captain, this programme has entered an alien data base, ours,and in less than seven hours has managed to not only learn our systems, but hasbegun to reprogram our computer.
We downloaded the Yamato log, and contained in the log was the programme.
Doctor Pulaski is unwilling to trust the turbolifts. She is sendingmedical teams through the access tunnels.
Try a bypass on the shield control interface.
Yes?
Any answer would be mere speculation. This is yet another example of howour actions have random results.
Scanners show no other life forms on the planet, sir.
Aye, sir.
Yes, sir. There are also similarities to Dewan and Iccobar.
It is, sir.
Accessing, sir.
Captain, your original hypothesis is correct. Iconian is the parenttongue of a language family which consists of Iccobar, Dewan and Dinasian. Ihave constructed a basic working understanding through a comparison of commonroot words such as mother, father, child, home, tribe, food, life, death,yours, ours, mine
You do understand, sir, that my interpretation of the symbols will not beexact?
This would appear to be manual override.
That was not manual override.
But we have established that this is not a holograph. If I step throughand investigate, we could determine whether it is truly a gateway.
No, I disagree. Captain, there is nothing in this room to indicate it wasused as a military command centre. Perhaps a transporter room?
Captain, there is a vast underground power source which is controlled bythis console. I believe my triggering of the gateway has caused a dramaticupsurge in power level. Ah, I have access.
Captain.
No, I am damaged.
The Iconian programme is attempting to rewrite my software. Physicalmanifestations, blindness, motor con
I understand, sir.
The power source, sir.
The probes, sir.
The doors, sir.
Yes, sir.
Correct, sir.
Help.
Describe, please.
Right one metre.
Correct. Key blue, amber, amber, red.
Blue, blue, blue.
I am accessing.
Captain? Captain?
I am on the Enterprise. How did I get here?
Iconia? I was on Iconia, now I am on the Enterprise.
Query. What have I forgotten?
May I help?
DATA : Yes, Captain.
Commander, your transmission has been received
DATA : And acknowledged.
DATA : Aye, sir.
Analysis bears out that the object was definitely terrestrial in origin,dated mid twenty first century.
Nevertheless, that is what our tests indicate. And the markings wediscovered are consistent with this hypothesis.
That is even more significant than the object itself, Counsellor. Onseveral of its surfaces, the molecules seem to have disintegrated
Almost as if they were hit by a weapon from our time.
Those ammonia storms are less than a kilometre away, yet they do notappear to penetrate this breathable zone.
The structure must be here, yet we cannot see it.
Sir, without communication, we should beam up immediately.
Commander
None of these people are emitting life signs.
Not illusion, Lieutenant. They do exist, but they do not register aseither man or machine.
Take this creature, for example. He does not exhibit any DNA structure.
What sort of business do you suppose he is getting down to?
Yes, sir.
Ah, is this poker?
Blackjack. Accessing. Ah. Also known as twenty one, a number whichdefines the object of the game. Picture cards are worth ten, aces one oreleven, all other cards face value.
Hit me. Another please.
If the objective of the game is to approach a total of twenty one points,
Hit me.
The number of the cards and their values remain quite constant. Whatwould be the purpose in counting them?
Fun, sir? While there is a certain amount of enjoyment involved, I ammainly conducting research into
Understood, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Sorry, sir.
Excuse me. Excuse me. Aside from the main door, is there another exit Imight use?
Excuse me?
Sir, I can find no other exits. I believe we are trapped here.
Sir, our options appear quite limited.
Commander, I am picking up something most unusual in another section ofthis structure. It appears to be human DNA.
Thirty one point nine metres above and to the right of us.
The reading I received is from behind this door, sir.
My reading is intensifying, sir.
None, sir.
Definitely human. Male.
He has been dead for two hundred and eighty three years, sir. The lack ofany advanced decomposition is due to the sterile environment.
Is this significant, sir?
Fifty two stars sir. Places it between 2033 and 2079 AD. It correlateswith the debris we found. Colonel S. Richey. Rest in peace, Colonel.
Captain, this is the story of a group of compulsive gamblers caught up ina web of crime, corruption and deceit.
DATA : It is told by nefarious lothario Mickey D, who appears only at theclimax to carry out the cold-blooded murder of the hotel bellboy.
There is also a subplot about an older man conspiring with a youngerwoman to murder her husband. She is squandering her inheritance.
Our projected survival would be approximately twelve seconds.
I believe she is asking if we want the room cleaned.
I suggest we separate and blend in with these beings. Casual queries,offered inconspicuously, may prove fruitful.
Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire, where are you from?
And how did you get here?
Where is your automobile now?
Could you take me there?
I believe you are trapped inside the Royale, just as I am.
The odds favour standing pat.
It is all a question of probabilities. Quite simple, really, if one betswith any sequential consistency.
The combinations totalling seven or eleven have considerable value whenachieved on the primary attempt. With eight variations possible to create thosetotals, the likelihood of those totals occurring is not significant. However
I believe so, sir.
Single digits on each cube are not at all desirable.
Actually, six is a valid point. Of course, now the objective is to roll aduplicate six before hitting seven.
There is a certain degree of random fortune involved. I believe that iswhy they call it gambling.
Commander, these cubes are improperly balanced. I believe their finalresting position would be
I believe so. I will make another attempt.
Baby needs a new pair of shoes.
Yes, sir. Twelve point three million. Perhaps I will bet seven hundredthousand.
But sir, the sale price of this edifice is twelve point five million.
Sir?
I do not believe that is a prudent choice, sir.
I tried to caution you, sir.
I wish to cash in, sir.
This is not an efficient method for the preparation of sustenance.
Estimate intercept in three minutes.
Target vehicle. We will be within tractor beam range in two seconds.
DATA : Shuttlebay two, prepare for retrieval procedure.
Locking tractor beam.
DATA : Engage secondary tractor beam.
Yes, sir.
Captain, both primary and reserve power has been drained from theshuttle. I am going to have to connect to the Enterprise in order to activatethe shuttle's systems.
The polarity is not compatible.
The power requirements of the shuttle do not match those of the
I do not have enough information.
Perhaps you had better step out of the way.
Increase the power.
Adjust the invert two percent positive.
Yes.
Adjust the invert two percent negative.
According to the shuttle log, the Enterprise was destroyed three hoursnineteen minutes from now.
I have nothing to offer. There is not enough information upon which tobase a hypothesis.
It is similar to our tractor beam, sir, only much more powerful.
The beam is coming from the centre of the vortex. Sensors show it to beonly a mass of energy.
Course set, sir.
We are back on course to Endicor.
I would consider them insignificant.
Even if the molecular level controls have failed, we can stillrecrystallise the dilithium without outside help.
Perhaps we can reprogram the system to correct the readout variables
And it has nothing to do with Commander Riker's new assignment?
There is, of course, a genetic predisposition toward hostility among all
Empirical study. Monitor the subject.
Within the norm of Klingon patterns, of course. Discretion will berequired.
And you must solve it.
But he needs his study time.
In solitude, there is nothing to trigger unusual behaviour.
But that would defeat the opportunity for our behavioural research. In allprobability, he is simply lonely. We can relieve his anxiety throughsocialisation.
Excuse me, Lieutenant. You seem to have lost the will to communicate withothers. You have friends here. We, we care about you. Why, just recently,
He seems quite sincere in his desire for solitude.
The ship's computer would have corrected immediately.
And what is the significance of the anniversary of this event?
We can programme the ship's computer to supply simulations on the
We need only to programme the computer with details of the specificceremony.
That would entail the use of Klingon painstiks.
Enduring physical suffering is considered a Klingon spiritual test.
We are his family.
There is nothing to find.
If I were not a consummate professional, and an android, I would find thisentire procedure insulting.
Computer, is this it?
Computer, please give us Klingon personnel appropriate to this event.
These images are specifically programmed for Ascension rites.
Shall we begin?
The true test of Klingon strength is to admit one's most profound feelingswhile under extreme duress.
Commander, I've been reviewing the unmanned probe scans. At some pointduring the last one hundred and fifty years, the fifth planet of Selcundi Dremahas shattered, forming an asteroid belt.
No, it is a personal project. I have reset the sensors to scan forfrequencies outside their usual range.
The dips and peaks of the galaxy's magnetic field, organic molecules innebular clouds, energetic cosmic rays.
Of course.
Those signals are very faint and difficult to distinguish from backgroundnoise. That is why I am boosting the power.
I will be removing that equipment to my quarters.
Computer, identify please.
Is there a pattern?
Naturally occurring?
Key universal translator, please.
Lock on comm. link and boost.
Read, please.
Enhance, please.
Yes.
Computer, please access all volcanic and tectonic plate activity in Drema
Computer, locate Captain Picard.
An excellent steed, sir. Sorry to disturb you, Captain.
Yes, sir, it is important. Very. Eight weeks ago I received atransmission, a simple four word message, 'Is anybody out there?' I answeredit.
Yes, sir. I am glad that you understand, sir.
No, sir. We speak often. It is a young female, humanoid.
No, sir.
I have kept that somewhat vague, sir, but Sarjenka, that is her name, hasbeen quite specific, telling me details of her family and friends. Andinterspersed among these confidences have been some alarming references.
Drema Four has been enduring the same geological stresses we have foundin the other systems.
Yes, sir.
If we can determine the cause of these geological disturbances, we mightbe able to reverse the process.
I was hoping that you might have another option, sir.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir. I understand, sir.
DATA : Commander Riker, report to the Captain's quarters.
But Commander, the Dremans are not a subject for philosophical debate.
Yes. Sarjenka's transmission could be viewed as a call for help.
She knows me.
We are going to allow her to die, are we not?
Sarjenka, this is Data. Respond please.
Reason for failure?
Captain.
Captain, permission to beam down to Drema Four.
I have been unable to contact Sarjenka.
Sir, I feel it is important to determine the reason for
Captain, your orders were to deliver the message, correct?
Then what is the difference between sending the message and delivering itpersonally?
Sir, we have come this far.
Yes, sir.
Sir?
I will signal for immediate beam out.
Sarjenka? Wait! I'm Data.
It would take too long to explain. You and your family must leave.
Then why are you here?
I am sorry for that, but it is very complicated. Does your family knowwhere you are?
You cannot survive in this.
Enterprise, two to beam up. You must come with me.
Where is Commander Riker?
To the Bridge.
Quite impossible.
I do, sir. She was frightened and did not wish to be left alone
Captain, I will see to it that she is not in the way.
Counsellor, allow me. Please. Sarjenka, no one will harm you. These aremy friends.
I will require my hand. Thank you.
Sensors locked on probes.
Resonators activated. Harmonic sequences have begun.
We are attempting to quiet your planet. If we succeed, there will be nomore quakes, no more volcanoes.
Captain, sensors indicate a planetwide reduction in tectonic stresslevels.
Your parents will be safe now.
Look, Sarjenka, there is your home.
Aye, sir.
Yes.
I am certain that you could.
I am afraid that is not possible.
Doctor Pulaski, this is Sarjenka.
It does not sing for me.
Because I am a machine.
But are we doing a good thing now, Doctor?
By robbing her of her memories?
Enterprise, one to beam up.
I came to apologise, sir.
I appreciate your seeking other options, sir. Your decision could havebeen unilateral.
Yes, sir. She will not remember me, sir, but I will remember her.
Yes, sir.
Sensors indicate no shuttle or other ships in this sector.
Search pattern has been input, sir.
We have covered the area in a spherical pattern which a vessel withoutwarp drive could traverse in the time allotted.
According to these coordinates, we have travelled seven thousand lightyears
DATA : And are located near the system J two five.
DATA : At maximum warp, in two years, seven months, three days, eighteenhours we would reach Starbase one eight five.
There is a system of roads on this planet, which indicates a highlyindustrialised civilisation. But where there should be cities there are onlygreat rips in the surface.
It is identical to what happened to the outposts along the Neutral Zone.
The ship is strangely generalised in design. There is no specific bridge,no command centre. There is no engineering section. I can identify no livingquarters.
There is no indication of life.
Then the initial encounter was solely for the purpose of gatheringinformation.
Shields will be down in eighteen seconds.
Shields are down, sir.
Tractor beam is released, sir. Force field is maintaining our hullintegrity.
Perhaps because this ship was scanned for individual life signs.
Captain, I would theorise that the Borg are somehow interconnectedthrough these slots and are working collectively.
Commander, I believe each slot is designed for a specific Borg. Here iswhere the connection is made.
The technology required to achieve this biological and artificialinterface is far beyond our capabilities. There are many advantages.
Fascinating.
Commander?
The ship appears to be regenerating. Perhaps this explains why they havenot taken notice of our presence. Their collective effort is being directedinto repairing this vessel.
Captain, the Borg are in pursuit.
Captain, the target was not the ship. The weapon was designed to drainthe shields.
Without our shields, at this range there is a high degree of probabilitythat a photon detonation could destroy the Enterprise.
Do not be apprehensive. Wes. I found the Academy examinations quiteelementary.
Commander Riker is correct. While the information imparted to cadets atthe Academy is unquestionably vital for prospective Starfleet officers, itnevertheless requires a significant period of supplementary systems trainingand situational disciplines.
Yes, sir, but not quite as perspicuously.
DATA : The Enterprise is at impulse speed. You are cleared for take off.
So he said.
Sir, Rhomboid Dronegar sector would put us at considerable distance from
Entering Rhomboid Dronegar Sector zero zero six.
Basic early design. Capable of sub-light travel only.
Sensors indicate engineering problems. They're experiencing totalguidance system failure, with less than twenty four hours' reserve power.
They are a relatively benign species.
They may merely have poorly developed language skills.
Scanners shows limited armaments.
How they ever mastered the rudiments of space travel is a genuinecuriosity.
Our Betazoid Counsellor is often aware of things beyond our perceptiveabilities.
Apparently, their ship is apparently quite fragile.
The Pakled ship has a shield up, sir.
It appears to be beyond their technology. Similar to Romulan shields.
Running frequency search. Negative, sir.
Apparently so.
Sensors at maximum.
I am programming the comm. system to scan the interference patterns, buta full analysis will take time.
Intensified scan shows their guidance system to be perfectly intact, asis their power generator.
Apparently, the putative malfunctions were carefully programmed intotheir ship's computer.
They seem to have made some technological leaps forward, Commander.
They are initiating visual contact, sir.
Our options have not changed. We can either respond to the Pakled demandor not. We can either use force or not.
There's limited information available on Pakled culture, but the eclecticrange of their equipment suggests their technology was borrowed from others.
So it would seem.
To what effect, sir? We are faced with an impossible conundrum.
But they lack the ability to use it properly.
Goodbye, Geordi. I shall miss you at weapons systems analysis.
As well as our hydrogen collectors. Fond farewell.
Ongoing scanning indicates progressive weapons potential. The timing willbe crucial. Geordi must correctly interpret our intentions.
The Pakleds did hear our little fiction about Geordi's weapons knowledge.
Positive indication of armed photon torpedoes, Commander.
Forced spectrum communications are spotty at best, sir.
Shields are down.
Medical emergency. Doctor Pulaski to the Bridge.
He just collapsed, sir.
Captain, I have been considering the problem of the missing ship.
Yes, sir.
Mariposa. The Spanish word for butterfly.
I thought it might be significant, sir.
No, sir.
 Spinning wheels? Accessing. A device for spinning yarn orthread that consists of a large foot or hand driven wheel and one spindle.
Spindle, a thin rounded tapering rod
Perhaps they were planning for the worst, sir.
In the early twenty-second century, Earth was recovering from World War
I have insufficient information from which to form a cogent theory, sir.
Aye, sir. The system's sun has entered a period of severe flare activity.
Class M readings from the fifth planet in the system.
Sensors indicate human life form readings thirty metres below theplanet's surface.
There is no evidence of an advanced communication network.
The stellar flares are increasing in magnitude and frequency. Computerprojections indicate they will brush the planet in three point six hours.
No doubt a descendant of Captain Walter Granger.
Judging a being by its physical appearance is the last major humanprejudice, Wesley.
Captain, we are receiving Starfleet orders granting a Lwaxana
Full ambassadorial status, sir.
And yours as well, Commander. She is listed as representing the Betazedgovernment at the conference.
I would have thought a telepath would be more discreet, sir.
To which dinner was the Captain referring, sir?
DATA : Yes, Captain?
DATA : The use of the chime is unique, but not at all dissimilar to the
Ooolans of Marejaretus Six, who use two large stones which arecontinuously struck during the meal. Those at the dinner must eat until thestones are broken.
DATA : Or the oligarchy on Atifs Four, which require a young
Indeed, sir. I'm on my way. Data out.
So, by using the square root of pi and multiplying it by nine to thethird power, I was able to accurately calculate the distance between the
Yes, Captain. That is a particularly spellbinding subject. In most stars,the rare Earth element europium is enriched relative to samarium and gadolinium
It is. However,
And at this point, the second co-orbital satellite avoids a collisionwith the first.
Captain. Perhaps I should remain and further entertain our guest.
Indeed, Captain? I know many more interesting anecdotes, sir. Forexample,
Sir?
Yes, sir.
Commander. Are you planning on going into the holodeck?
Could you postpone our departure for just five minutes, sir?
Carlos.
She is correct, sir. I am detecting large amounts of ultritium.
I believe the wiser course of action here is to bend.
That is correct. Fold. To bend. To make compact or to capitulate.
I do not believe Lieutenant Worf understands all the nuances of thisbetting procedure.
The cards have been favouring the Lieutenant, but that is the result ofrandom chance, therefore, a temporary condition.
 Geordi.
The game is seven card stud. After the queen, one-eyed jacks and low cardin the hole are wild.
Emergency signal reads as follows. Enterprise to divert to coordinatesfour-two-three by one one two by five one immediately. Further ordersforthcoming.
The message does not elaborate.
Our destination is a point near the Boradis system.
The first Federation outpost was established thirty four years ago on
Yet we are not headed for a specific colony. The coordinates given areoutside the Boradis system.
None, sir.
We are receiving, sir.
Apparently there were no starships available on Starbase One Five Three.
By sending the probe to meet us rather than diverting the Enterprise,they are saving us six point one hours.
We are on a course precisely parallel to the probe, sir.
As far as I can determine, sir, very little. There are four colonies inthe Boradis system, as well as nine other outposts scattered throughout thesector.
There are thirteen colonies with minimal defences in that sector.
Based on the last assumed position of the Klingon vessel, its apparenttrajectory, and our estimates of their cruising speed, we should be in scannerrange in fifteen hours, eight minutes.
Android, of course, is correct, but I fail to see how chaperon isapplicable in this situation.
At the moment, I would find it difficult to choose.
DATA : Captain, we are detecting a ship,
Bearing three one-six mark four two
DATA : Extreme sensor range.
Sensors show life forms aboard, but I am unable to ascertain whether theyare awake or dormant. However, the vessel's propulsion systems are inactive, so
However, I could be in error.
The T'Ong has changed course to three two mark eight one. Increasing towarp three.
The T'Ong is now on a heading of four two mark one one three. They areaccelerating to warp five.
They are slowing to impulse, sir.
bgcolor="#d5d5d5">
In the game of military brinksmanship, individual physical prowess isless important than the perception of a species as a whole. For over ninemillennia, potential foes have regarded the Zakdorns as having the greatestinnately strategic minds in the galaxy.
Exactly.
The Zakdornian culture is replete with self-assuredness and confidence.
Forever curious, this urge to compete.
Doctor, there are other ways to challenge oneself.
To avoid deceiving oneself.
Why, Doctor?
To what end?
Aye, sir.
But I expressed no such interest.
Indeed, I.  Cannot.
In the present context, what did she mean by bust him up?
As opposed to what?
Thank you, but what would be the point?
Obviously, I am not.
Come in, please.
Counsellor. Is something wrong?
With my repository of knowledge, I expected to perform better against ahumanoid life form.
But Counsellor, I do not have an ego.
But Counsellor, I do not have a
That is what troubles me. I made no mistakes. I have conducted adiagnostic check of all of my programs. I am cross-checking with the ship'scomputer.
I believe so. I have proven to be vulnerable. At the present time, mydeductions should be treated with scepticism.
Yes. The Captain would be ill advised to rely upon my judgement.
I, however, am not sure.
Come in, please.
Doctor?
I am conducting diagnostic
No, Doctor, this is not ego. I am concerned about giving the Captainunsound advice.
Why, Doctor? It is done, and perhaps just as well. This has indicatedthat I am damaged in some fashion. I must find the malfunction.
Come in, please.
Captain, with all due respect, perhaps it would be better if you chooseanother to serve as your First Officer.
I have not been able to isolate the problem, sir. I might make a mistake.
Yes, sir.
I believe I understand, sir.
I have several examples of Commander Riker's battle technique. At the
Only twenty-one percent of the time does he rely upon traditionaltactics. So, the Captain must be prepared for unusual cunning. Counsellor,
A fighter?
The weaker his position, the more aggressive will be his posture.
Then despite whatever options he is given, he must be
Is that a failing in humans?
Disengage modified beams.
Computer reports simulated damage to several aft decks, sir. Repair time,three point six days.
Sever modified beams.
Engage phasers and target.
The Ferengi have broken off their attack. Drop shields. Transport theaway team aboard.
Shields reduced to one fifth intensity.
Our shields will not withstand another assault.
Premise. The Ferengi wish to capture the Hathaway believing it to bevalue. Therefore we must remove the ship from their field of interest. 
On the Captain's signal, we will fire four photon torpedoes directly atthe Hathaway.
DATA : One millisecond after its detonation, the computer will trigger yourwarp jump.
If the warp engines fail to function, the result could be unfortunate.
Remember, Geordi, if the implementation is off by a millisecond
DATA : The Hathaway will not survive.
Ready, Captain.
Why have you suspended the game?
No, sir. It is a stalemate.
I simply altered my premise for playing the game.
Working under the assumption that Kolrami was attempting to win, it isreasonable to assume that he expected me to play for the same goal.
No. I was playing only for a standoff, a draw. While Kolrami wasdedicated to winning, I was able to pass up obvious avenues of advancement andsettle for a balance. Theoretically, I should be able to challenge himindefinitely.
It is a matter of perspective, Doctor. In the strictest sense, I did notwin.
I busted him up.
I must reiterate, it would be better if I went alone.
Your company is not at issue. Your vulnerability to the microorganism is.
Possible, but highly unlikely. In any event, why risk both of us?
Mister O'Brien, energise.
I am detecting no animal life within fifty kilometres. However, I amreading extensive animal remains, mostly fossilised.
I do not know.
The structure is rhizomatous.
I am always careful.
It appears to be dead.
If you are correct, you are placing yourself in grave danger.
I would tend to agree.
Not precisely, Geordi. True fossilisation requires several millennia.
Captain, Commander Riker's injury was not accidental. Certain vines onthe planet evidently seek out warm-blooded beings and deliberately infect them.
Unknown, sir. It is conceivable there is a symbiotic relationshipinvolved.
There are numerous animal remains in the area, leading me to hypothesizethat the vines could be predatory.
It is possible. For Commander Riker's sake, I hope my hypothesis is inerror.
Marvellous. How easily humans do that. I still need much practice.
I shall endeavour to function adequately, sir.
Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always.
No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honours in probability mechanics andexobiology.
Machine? Correct, sir. Does that trouble you?
Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human.
I am superior, sir, in many ways. But I would gladly give it up to behuman.
Ah! Intriguing.
It seems to feed on our phaser energy.
Enterprise?
DATA : Armus has enveloped Commander Riker.
I believe I have found a quicker way out of here, sir.
He is alive, sir, but just barely.
As you wish.
Captain, I do not believe you have the authority to promote me to therank of Admiral.
Captain. Doctor. I am honoured by your presence, but may I suggest youattend the second concert.
Ensign Ortiz will perform the violin part. My rendition will be lessenjoyable.
Although I am technically proficient, according to my fellow performers,
But is not honesty always the preferred choice?
Indeed?
Because you will lose their confidence?
Hyperonic radiation also interferes with ship's transporters. They arenow inoperable.
Aye, sir.
Greetings, gentlemen.
That is correct. I am an android. I am Lieutenant Commander Data of the
And who, precisely, is us?
My local informant does not have that information. In the early days on
Fifteen thousand two hundred fifty three, sir.
DATA : Aye, sir.
Lieutenant Commander Data of the Starship Enterprise.
My mission is to prepare this colony for evacuation.
Because this planet belongs to the Sheliak.
The term is plural. The Sheliak are a non-humanoid, intelligent lifeform, classification R3.
The original destination of the Artemis was Septimus Minor.
Your accomplishments are truly remarkable. Yet the Sheliak and the
That may not be possible. The Sheliak wish to colonise this planet, andare unwilling to share it with humans. If you are still here when the Sheliakcolony ship arrives, they will eradicate you.
They have little regard for human life. Thus, the most sensible course isto prepare a contingency plan for the evacuation of your people.
Perhaps I have not made myself clear.
Have you seen many?
No, positronic.
I'm afraid I have no time to answer a million questions. I have a missionto accomplish. I need to know more about your people, and Gosheven seemsunwilling to talk to me further.
The possibility does exist, yet Gosheven seems unwilling to prepare forit. Why?
I am not ordering him to do anything. I am merely trying to persuade himthat his people should prepare to evacuate. Do you believe my suggested courseof action should be followed?
In spite of the fact that I am an android?
No, I would say not.
And you conclude because of this that I am impartial. Hence, you acceptmy recommendations? Yet Gosheven does not.
Data here.
Understood, sir.
Aye, sir. We must speak to Gosheven immediately.
It is water. A substance composed of two atoms of hydrogen
The Sheliak will not accept humans on their planet, And they will nothesitate to use force to remove you.
Are his sentiments typical of the colonists?
If I can convince enough people of the necessity of leaving
DATA : Commander.
In human parlance, I do not believe I can get the job done. My traininghas prepared me for starship command duties. As a cultural contact I am provingto be
DATA : Less than exemplary.
DATA : Their leader refuses my counsel.
He denies the logic of my arguments and speaks of structures they havebuilt.
DATA : I have, sir.
In the last three hours and eight minutes, I have spoken to fifty sixcolonists. Ten of those refused to believe a threat exists. Twenty two favourstaying and fighting the Sheliak. Sixteen prefer negotiation or
DATA : Some form of passive resistance. Only eight were willing to considerevacuation. And of those eight
Sir, if I do not succeed, how violent is the Sheliak reaction likely tobe?
Ah.
Is there any indication that Gosheven has changed his position?
So far, my attempts at persuasion have been ineffective.
Why did you do that?
Among humans, a kiss usually serves to seal a friendship, or indicatesupport, attraction, affection. In this context, I must assume that yourintention was to express support.
That is something of an understatement.
Thus far, that quality has not helped me to accomplish my mission.
Elicit a desired behaviour by advocating its opposite. That impliesdeception, does it not?
Perhaps this is a situation where excessive honesty can be detrimental.
I wish to speak.
Do you consider your position so weak that it cannot withstand debate?
You know of the Sheliak threat. Starfleet wishes to evacuate you for yourown protection. Yet Gosheven has decided otherwise. That is his right, And Iwill not waste time trying to reverse that decision. I admire your convictionin the face of certain defeat. Though doomed, your effort will be valiant. Andwhen you die, you will die for land and honour. Your children will understandthat they are dying for a worthy cause. Long after the battle is over, theircourage will be remembered and extolled.
Yes, that is true. There will be no one left alive to remember.
I was simply attempting to describe your inevitable destruction in amanner that would have an emotional effect.
Then here you die.
And you?
If you so desire.
The Federation will offer as little or as much help as you dictate.
Apparently, that is not correct.
I appear to be reversing that defeat.
I am equipped with diagnostic circuits and am able to correct manymalfunctions.
Perhaps that is a part of our difficulty. Words are all we have beenusing. Humans seem to take much stronger notice of actions. I require a phaser.
A type of weapon. Unfortunately it does not function in the presence ofhyperonic radiation. I will have to be innovative.
Hyperonic radiation randomises phaser beams. But I believe I canimprovise a servocircuit which will compensate by continuously recollimatingthe output.
Essentially correct. Get word to Gosheven. Tell him I am coming to thepumping station. Tell him I am going to destroy the aqueduct.
I sincerely hope so.
Stop. That was the stun setting. This is not.
I can reduce this pumping station to a pile of debris, but I trust mypoint is clear. I am one android with a single weapon. There are hundreds of
I know that. This is just a thing, and things can be replaced. Livescannot.
Lieutenant Commander Data to Enterprise. I am preparing to leave Tau
I could not have succeeded without your support and insight. I amgrateful for your assistance.
I am incapable of forgetting. I will remember every detail of my visithere with perfect clarity.
I do not understand.
I have no feelings of any kind.
You appeared to need it.
Thank you, sir.
As I have recently reminded others, sir, I have no feeling.
Strictly speaking, sir, it is not my playing. It is a precise imitationof the techniques of Jascha Heifetz and Trenka Bronken.
I suppose I have learned to be creative, sir, when necessary.
Eighteen hours, seven minutes, and ten seconds, Doctor.
Five minutes to launch site.
Thirty seconds to impact, sir.
Twelve seconds to impact, sir.
All systems functioning normally, sir.
It is conceivable that he was viewing a synthetically generated image,sir.
Controls are not responding, sir.
The system automatically provides for self-correction, Captain. There hasnot been a systems-wide technological failure on a starship in seventy nineyears.
It is 'Stars and Stripes Forever'. sir, by John Phillip Sousa, a popular
The music is on all communications channels, sir.
These are not ordinary nanites.
It is conceivable that with each new generation they enhance their owndesign. The rate of evolution would be extraordinary.
Engineering, display computer core processor four five one, element zerotwo nine nine.
Increase magnification, factor one thousand.
High level gamma radiation would kill them, Doctor.
The nanites in the upper core are all dead, Captain.
Doctor Stubbs, your own actions have provided evidence to the contrary.
With intelligence, there is the capability of language, but it willdepend on how far their evolution has brought them. We could modify thecircuitry in the universal translator to make it capable of communications withthem.
Captain. I have established contact.
As we continue, Captain, they are virtually learning the concept ofcommunication. Each new generation is making modifications.
I believe it is worth an attempt. sir.
I am ready, sir.
Captain, if a face to face negotiation would be helpful, I would like tovolunteer myself as a conduit.
I can easily furnish the nanites with a schematic design of myneurological structure. Entering my neural network would require no more thantheir most basic skills.
They could penetrate the molecular fabric of my hand-covering into mynerve circuitry, and interface with my verbal programs.
It would be a considerable risk, sir, but it would also represent agesture of trust on our part. It could be an important step toward peace, sir.
The answer is yes.
They are ready, Captain.
You are very strange looking creatures.
Why did you attack us?
We were seeking raw materials for our replicating process.
We meant no harm. We were exploring.
We know who you are.
What is at your mercy?
We agree.
Thank you, but we have evolved beyond any need for your assistance. Thisvessel has become too confining. We require relocation.
Ten seconds to stellar blast, sir.
Captain, we are not receiving Rana Four's call sign.
No response. Rana Four is emissions quiet.
Sensors are scanning ninety degrees of longitude as we orbit. I amdetecting no bodies of water, no vegetation, no artificial structures.
That is highly unlikely. Rana Four possessed no interstellar spacecraft.
The structure is located at the centre of the vegetation.
Negative. It is as you see it.
If there are indicators as to why this particular area has remainedintact, I cannot detect them.
Botanists. Originally from the aquatic city New Martim Vaz in Earth's
Our vehicle classification index can put no identity to it. Its design iscompletely foreign.
They have received the message, Captain, but are ignoring it.
The vessel has assumed a position outside of the Rana system, and it israpidly increasing velocity.
I have a positive identification, Commander. It is the vessel thatattacked us earlier. It is re-entering the system at high velocity and isapproaching Rana Four.
The warship is capable of striking us with far more powerful bursts.
The vessel appears undamaged, sir. Its defences are apparently able toabsorb incoming matter and energy.
Captain, the Uxbridge house is coming into transporter range.
The warship is approaching from high orbit. It is very close threehundred thousand kilometres distant.
The vessel has altered its course to a direct intercept with the
The vessel is now within twenty thousand kilometres of the Enterprise andclosing.
The vessel is entering a low orbit around Rana Four. It appears it ispreparing to fire at the planet, Captain.
My calculations indicate that its target is the house of Kevin and Rishon
But, Captain, will they not protest?
Captain, if we increase to warp seven we can be there in twenty threeminutes.
Keep work. Palmer.
The hologram generator is now functioning, sir.
Commander.
The area around the duck blind exhibits Karst topography. Sinkholes,underground rivers, and caverns. And the rock strata contain a highconcentration of thallium compounds which may be obstructing our sensor beams.
Correct, sir.
DATA : Perfectly, Commander. I will be monitoring you continuously.
DATA : Acknowledged, Commander.
DATA : Negative, Commander. Sensors show she's in the midst of a group of
DATA : Counsellor, sensors indicate five Mintakans in your immediatevicinity. Four are motionless. The fifth is eight meters away, proceedingsouth. Is Nuria one of these five?
Was that intended to be an affirmative?
Is Nuria the closest of the five?
DATA : Is Nuria the one in motion?
Locked on. We can beam Nuria aboard at will.
Aye, sir.
DATA : Captain, Nuria is alone.
Commander, away team reporting in. Lieutenant Worf standing by.
The Koinonians were an intelligent culture which became embroiled in awar that lasted for several generations. Our best evidence indicates theydestroyed themselves.
According to historical records. This will be the first opportunity for a
Excuse me, sir. Am I intruding?
How well did you know Lieutenant Aster?
Why do you ask?
But why do you ask the question? Since her death, I have been askedseveral times to define how well I knew Lieutenant Aster. And I heard you ask
I do not sense the same feelings of absence that I associate with
Human nature, sir?
But should not the feelings run as deep regardless of who has died?
They employ a subspace proximity detonator. A normal tricorder wouldnever detect it.
It comes from the time of the Koinonian Wars, sir.
Inconclusive, Captain.
The pattern has no exact match in Federation records, sir.
A possibility.
There is a beam of highly charged particles emanating from the planet,sir, but I cannot pinpoint the location yet.
No intruder noted by the sensors, sir.
The beam from the planet is clearly tapping into the ship's anti-matter,
The shield has severed the beam, sir. Captain, the energy field.
Engaging force fields, Captain. Transporters down.
Join me in the R'uustai, the Bonding. You will become part ofmy family now and for all time. We will be brothers.
Neither side intended Orelious Nine to be the decisive conflict.
The destruction is remarkable considering the primitive weapons of theperiod.
I beg your pardon, Wesley?
Uh, oh.
Acknowledged.
Confirmed, sir.
Approaching the source, Captain.
Sensors indicate no life signs aboard, Captain.
There is adequate oxygen for life support, Commander.
I was never a boy.
Activating power pack, Captain.
The source of the distress signal appears to be coming from up there,
Captain, I believe this is an information storage device. A crudeanalogue of our isolinear optical chip.
Questionable, sir. I believe I can supply power to its playback unit, butits components are quite old. I will attempt to amplify its image with mytricorder.
Aye, sir.
Captain, we are experiencing a two percent drop in energy reserves.
Captain, energy loss increasing to five percent.
Energy loss increasing, sir.
Power loss now at twelve percent, Captain.
There are many fascinating records of Menthar battle strategy. They wereexceptionally innovative. In fact, they were the first to use the Kavis Tekeelusive manoeuvre as well as the passive lure stratagem that is comparable to
No, sir.
They are identical to the coil we found earlier, Captain.
DATA : I believe so, sir.
We can enhance them through the image processor in the ship's computer.
Captain. We've been able to verify that these coils are the logs of the
On most, there are brief sections which may yield some information.
Aceton assimilators are a primitive generator which can drain power fromdistant sources.
It would not be difficult to modify them to convert energy intoradiation.
To create this radiation field would take several hundred thousand, sir.
There is no way to precisely calculate that, Commander, but it is likely.
There is also the possibility that the phasers will supply theassimilators with what they need most. Energy.
Energy reserves are dropping rapidly, sir.
Impulse engines are down.
Velocity is one hundred thirty five metres per second.
Starboard thruster firing.
Thruster is off.
Port thrusters firing.
Port thruster is firing. Sir, the gravitational attraction of the variousmasses has reduced our velocity by eight percent. By my calculations, we nolonger have sufficient momentum to clear the debris field.
The asteroid's gravity is drawing us closer. Velocity is increasing.
A neutrino pulse would send non-charged particles back up through theatmosphere and would be detectable by Geordi's Visor.
Captain, I have a new transmission on a parallel frequency to thedistress call.
No, sir. From inside the Romulan Zone. We should be able to view thetransmission.
The neutrino stream is coming in strongly. Sensors are tracking the probedespite the interference.
There is no indication, Commander. I have no way to predict.
The Romulan warbird should still be twenty nine minutes away from theedge of the Neutral Zone.
The storm is beginning to subside, Captain. We should have a window inless than an hour.
Scanners are showing a window, Captain.
Nine minutes, forty seconds, sir.
The electromagnetic window on the planet is closing, sir. Three minutesremain.
The window is allowing intermittent sensor readings. There are stillnumerous ghost images, but I believe we are picking up two life forms near thebeacon.
I cannot say. The electromagnetic interference prevents an accuratereading.
The data from the Barzan's probe of the wormhole are quite impressive,
The same distance could be achieved in a matter of seconds through thewormhole.
The Barzans do not have manned space travel, so they had to resort to anautomated probe. Its findings are limited. It cannot be determined from thesecharts how stable the wormhole really is, or how long it will remain intact.
Aye, sir. Proverbial lemon?
I would also like to volunteer, sir.
There is a bright side, Geordi. You will have me to talk to.
It is visible, Captain.
DATA :  and intense energy fields which appear to be stabil
Monitors are functioning normally again.
Curious. We are not where we are supposed to be.
According to the Barzan probe, we should be in the Gamma Quadrant butthese readings clearly indicate we are nearly two hundred light years away insector three five five six of the Delta Quadrant.
Perhaps the readings were correct. Their probe could have exited thewormhole at a completely different location.
Gravitational acceleration is also increasing.
This is not a speculation, Doctor. We are not where the Barzans said weshould be, which would indicate
DATA : This side of the wormhole is not stable.
Thrusters at half power. Three quarters.
Captain, this end of the wormhole is currently stable, but the other endapparently shifts positions periodically.
DATA : The Barzan probe had no way to recognise this. Eventually, bothsides will be unstable.
Commander, I am detecting life signs from behind that door.
It is a likely hypothesis. The nomadic marauders who refer to themselvesas Gatherers have raided other outposts in neighbouring sectors.
The Federation has charted but not explored several class M planets inthat area. Any one of these planets might well serve as a base.
Captain, I am detecting life readings from the planet surface, as well asseveral small areas of thermal radiation and carbon dioxide emissions,indicative of combustion.
Is that not what I said?
Noranium alloy, sir. It's salvage value is quite low.
Rigelian phaser rifles, sir. Not particularly powerful.
Two thousand three hundred fourteen degrees. Of course, noranium carbide
DATA : Sir, Acamar Three has agreed to your request for access to theirdatabases. They are now being transmitted into our computer over subspace link.
Commander, I'm afraid the only entry we have on Volnoth in the Acamariandatabase is a birth record.
Yes, sir. He was a member of the Lornak clan. He was captured whileleading a Gatherer raid on an Acamarian outpost. He died of a heart attackbefore his trial ended.
Commander, Chorgan, the present leader of the Gatherers, is also from the
Commander, eighty years ago the Lornaks massacred a rival clan, the
According to these records, there were no survivors. The Tralestas wereannihilated.
Sir, I believe I have found a correlation between the two deaths. Yourmissing link. That is Penthor-Mul being led from his trial.
Behind him and to the left, sir.
The computer can extrapolate and reconstruct the rest of the face, sir.
 A friend.
Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
Even as men wrecked upon a sand, that look to be washed off the nexttide.
No, nor it is not meet he should. For though I speak it to you, I thinkthe king is but a man, as I am. The violet smells to him as it doth to me, inhis nakedness he appears but a man. Therefore, his fears, out of doubt, be ofthe same relish as ours are. Yet no man should possess him with any appearanceof fear, lest he, by showing it, should dishearten his army.
Methinks I could not die anyplace so contented as in the King's company,his cause being just and his quarrel honourable.
The King is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers,the father of his son, nor the master of his servant.
Freeze programme. Thank you, sir. I plan to study the performances of
Captain, why should a king wish to pass as a commoner? If he is theleader, should he not be leading?
Sir, will I be able to schedule a performance for the crew in the nearfuture?
Forty-one seconds, sir.
Scout ship is severely damaged, Captain. Engines inoperative, shields aredown.
Coordinates one four zero by two zero five, sir.
Five kilometres, sir.
Massive power failure to the scout ship, sir. All systems are goingoffline, including life support.
Commander, that would not be an atypical Romulan ploy. In their longhistory of war, the Romulans have rarely attacked first. They prefer to testtheir enemy's resolve.
That would also not be an atypical Romulan ploy, sir.
Captain, permission to observe the interrogation?
There is no unusual activity in the Nelvana System, sir.
Nothing on the sensors.
Not necessarily, Doctor. The Romulans have the same capability to directthe impact of their weapons as we do.
You wanted to see me, Captain?
I will start my calibrations, sir.
Is there something else you require of me, Captain?
I will begin immediately, sir. Is that all?
They are concerned, of course, Captain, but confident. Do you not seethat, sir?
Sensors are configured for planetary probe, sir. Ready for launch.
Probe on course. Sensors are functioning.
Your gut?
But those qualities would interfere with rational judgment, would theynot?
Then why not rely strictly on the facts?
They can lead to wrong conclusions, but they cannot lie.
The facts to date would lead to an objective conclusion that he is not.
With their pants?
Because your gut tells you so?
So a person fills in missing pieces of the puzzle with his ownpersonality, resulting in a conclusion based as much on instinct and intuitionas on fact.
But what does one do if he has no instinct and intuition?
As the probe went into orbit around Nelvana Three, it began picking uplow level subspace radio emissions.
No, sir. The patterns are clearly artificial.
Cloaked Romulan ships could produce that effect.
That would be an incorrect assumption.
I was attempting to ascertain what my guts tell me about you.
I do not find that concept particularly appealing.
I am told by various crewmembers that this viewport is their favourite onthe ship.
I am afraid they would require the molecular structure of the beverage inquestion. And, as you are no doubt aware, our knowledge of your planet is quitelimited.
Am I correct in assuming you regret your decision to come here?
It does appear unlikely you will ever be allowed to return to yourplanet.
But perhaps we can bring Romulus to you.
Run programme.
After you.
You are free to stay here as long as you wish.
Cancel programme.
Approaching Nelvana system.
Scanning the planet, sir. No life forms, no power sources, no weaponssystems.
No, sir.
I am picking them up, sir, but I cannot identify the source. They seem tobe moving in an orbital path with an eight hundred kilometre apogee.
There is no scarring on the planet surface that would denote heavyconstruction of any kind.
A cloaking device operating on the surface would be given away by visibledistortion effects.
Sir, he must have known it would be impossible for us to deliver this.
Yes, Commander.
DATA : Yes, sir.
We will use extreme caution.
Specifications on the vessel, Mister Worf?
Heading, Mister Crusher?
Scan the drive section for life form readings.
Bring us around to the back side of the asteroid, Mister Crusher.
Apparently, he did not survive.
I am afraid the prisoner has eluded us, sir.
We followed procedures precisely, Captain. Scanners indicated no lifeforms present in the drive section. I cannot explain how he escaped.
Commander, I believe I can recalibrate our sensors to read through theelectromagnetic interference over the poles.
There he is, Commander. You were correct.
There are still no life form readings coming from the vessel.
I have compensated. Still no readings.
He is coming about, sir.
Shields have been automatically activated. Tractor beam disengaged.
I do not believe that will be necessary, Captain. He is no longer in thedrive section.
I anticipated that diversionary tactic based on his pattern to date. Weare picking up a cylindrical object approximately seven metres in length andthree metres in diameter.
Yet there are still no life form readings.
Yes, sir. There is nothing wrong with the ship's sensors. The reason wedid not sense life signs aboard the escape vessel is because the prisoner hasno life signs.
Our sensors can identify artificial lifeforms, sir. Apparently, he iscapable of deceiving the sensors.
Yes, Counsellor. We are copying records for Federation inspectionpursuant to their application for admittance.
There is no police record.
Lunar Five is a military prison facility.
That may provide an explanation for the tactics he was able to useagainst us when we tried to capture him.
He served in many campaigns during the Tarsian War, received twopromotions, to the rank of Subhadar. A very honourable tour of duty
Perhaps that would explain why our sensors did not detect him.
Counsellor, did no one try to adjust their programming?
Am I disturbing you?
Then I will leave.
I am an android. I believe you and I have something in common.
Yes. We have both been programmed.
I do not mean to belittle your condition. I understand your dilemma. But
Without further analysis of your condition from Counsellor Troi or Doctor
I cannot answer that.
No. But my programme does include military strategy. That is how I wasable to anticipate your final tactic and capture you.
Except that I am not programmed to kill.
I am incapable of any feeling.
Nor do I.
I too.
Coordinates received, sir.
General quarters sounded, sir.
Sir, unauthorised access of turbolift five on deck thirty four.
Four seconds to arrival, sir.
Sir, containment field down on deck thirty six.
Captain, someone in Engineering is attempting to override the securitysystem lockout.
As he bypasses each subsystem, I can re-route it without his knowledge.
Danar is extremely adept, sir. I am not certain which security measure heis attempting to circumvent. Sir, Danar has succeeded in restoring power toshuttlebay two.
I have overridden Danar's bypass. Shuttlebay two is once again inactive.
DATA : Lieutenant, I am reading an open panel. K twelve, J nine, deckthirty.
Captain, reading another open access panel.
Sir, I find it highly unlikely that Danar would be attempting to reachshuttlebay two.
In our previous encounter, Danar employed a strategy of misdirection inan attempt to gain his objective.
He is aware that our sensors are unable to track him, yet he seems to bepurposely leaving a trail for us to follow.
I am afraid his true destination remains a mystery. Readings now indicatean open access panel in Jeffries tube N eleven, deck thirty eight.
They appear to be empty, sir.
Aye, sir.
Sensors show anestazine concentration seventy parts per million withinthe cargo bays.
Explosion in Jefferies tube section T nine five. All external sensorsinoperative.
Unable to transfer control, sir.
Negative, sir. All external sensors still nonfunctioning.
Captain, the Prime Minister is hailing us. Priority one.
It is against their nature to do so, Captain.
Prime Minister, if you have the skills to create a master soldier, canyou not contradict the effect?
Have you tried, sir?
We have only a few minutes before our next meeting, Doctor.
Doctor, I believe it would be prudent to return to the Enterprise. Thereare physicians on this planet.
Captain, there has been an incident.
DATA : A bomb has been detonated by Ansata terrorists.
DATA : Vulnerable, sir.
Sir, I've recommended such a course, but there are several wounded peopleand Doctor Crusher
DATA : Is insisting on attending to
Aye, sir.
A transporter would leave residual ionization in the air. Our tricorderreadings found no trace after the incident.
We have been unable to detect a signal from her communicator. Either ithas been deactivated or she is being held in a shielded location.
A subspace field coil with an isolated power source. Curious.
That could possibly indicate subspace transition rebound duringtransport.
Are you referring to the Elway Theorem?
But the Elway Theorem proved to be entirely inaccurate. All research wasabandoned by the mid-twenty third century.
But it was proven to be fatal. To use this technology would be anirrational act.
Captain, anyone who is willing to transport in this manner, would suffersignificant internal damage that could be detected.
A dimensional jump can create subspace pressure modulation, Captain. Bysetting up a magnetosphere echogram that can monitor each of their movements,we may be able to collect enough data to trace their power source.
Dimensional shifting is such an unstable procedure, sir, that I cannotsay. Sir, I am finding it difficult to understand many aspects of Ansataconduct. Much of their behavioral norm would be defined by my programme asunnecessary and unacceptable.
But if that is so, Captain, why are their methods so often successful? Ihave been reviewing the history of armed rebellion and it appears thatterrorism is an effective way to promote political change.
Yet there are numerous examples where it was successful. The independenceof the Mexican State from Spain, the Irish Unification of 2024, and the Kensey
Then would it be accurate to say that terrorism is acceptable when alloptions for peaceful settlement have been foreclosed?
Casualties reported on deck twelve. Sickbay responding.
They are moving inter-dimensionally. Neither transporters nor forcefieldswill contain them, sir.
Sensors indicate it is located thirty metres below the ground, implying acavern-like dwelling.
Our readings show no evidence of any, Commander.
Aye, sir.
The satellite's trajectory is continuing to deteriorate, Captain. Thisorbit will put it within five hundred kilometres of the planet surface.
No, Doctor. It is a most unusual phenomenon.
The total mass of the moon would remain the same, Commander, and theimpact of thousands of fragments would spread destruction over an even widerarea.
Twenty nine hours, sir. Projecting it somewhere on the western continent.
Delta vee is ninety two metres per second. The mass is too great. We arehaving an effect but it is negligible.
Unable to identify source.
Sir, he is reading as fully human.
Sensors are showing broadband emissions, including Berthold rays
No, Commander. Overall exposure is less than seventy five rems. Very lowintensity, more like a soft medical scan. I would speculate we are beingprobed.
The sensors cannot identify the point of origin. It seems to be comingfrom all around us.
DATA : On my way, sir.
Aye, sir.
I was considering the possibility that you are telling the truth, thatyou really are human.
An irony. It means that you have achieved in disgrace what I have alwaysaspired to be.
The human race has an enduring desire for knowledge, and for newopportunities to improve itself.
Oh, I do not feel envy.
I feel nothing at all. That is part of my dilemma. I have the curiosityof humans, but there are questions I will never have the answer to. What is itlike to laugh, or cry, or to experience any human emotions.
The Enterprise will be dangerously close to the atmosphere.
Medical assistance to Engineering.
Can you recommend a way to counter the effect?
Geordi is trying to say that changing the gravitational constant of theuniverse is beyond our capabilities.
Q says he has hurt his back.
The choice of meal is determined by individual taste.
Although I do not require sustenance, I occasionally ingest semi-organicnutrient suspension in a silicon-based liquid medium.
It would be more accurate to say it is good for me, as it lubricates mybio-functions.
A wide variety of items. The replicator can make anything you desire.
I have observed that the selection of food is often influenced by themood of the person ordering.
When Counsellor Troi is unhappy, she usually eats something chocolate.
A chocolate sundae, for example. Although I do not speak from personalexperience, I have seen it have a profound psychological impact.
I've never seen anyone eat ten chocolate sundaes.
The Captain and many of the crew are not yet convinced he is truly human.
That would be a most noble cause, Q.
I am an android, not a robot.
He has provided important theoretical guidance for Geordi's analysis ofthe Bre'el satellite, Captain.
I am merely stating a fact, Counsellor.
DATA : Maintaining field integrity will be difficult, Geordi.
I do not perceive your skills to be in doubt, Q. The Captain is moreconcerned with your ability to interact successfully with his little trainedminions.
Human interpersonal relationships are more complex. Your experiences maynot have adequately prepared you.
Engineering. To function aboard a starship, or in any human activity, youmust learn to form relationships.
And of more immediate importance is your ability to work within groups.
Geordi thinks he is in command here, and he is correct.
DATA : Containment fields to flight tolerance.
Warp core to ninety percent.
Yes, Captain. We are unable to encompass the entire moon.
Q, I strongly suggest that you cooperate.
Inertial mass of the moon is decreasing to approximately two point fivemillion metric tonnes.
DATA : Captain, the moon's trajectory has moved point three percent. Point-four percent.
Hull temperature rising. Two thousand degrees.
DATA : Two thousand five hundred degrees.
Captain, the aliens have disappeared, and so has the shuttle.
I have, sir.
If your intention is to make me human, Q.
I do not know. But it was a wonderful feeling.
The moon's altitude is fifty five thousand kilometres. Projected orbit iscircular. There is no further danger to the planet.
Captain, we have arrived at Tanuga Four. The away team has completed itssurvey of Doctor Apgar's work and is ready to return to the ship.
Ensign Williams' striking style is heavily influenced by geometricconstructivism.
Lieutenant Wright has effectively fused the incongruities of thesurrealists with the irrationality of Dadaism.
Interesting.
While suggesting the free treatment of form usually attributed to
You are welcome, sir. If I can be of further assistance
Captain, the radiation and debris are consistent with an overload of thestation's reactor core.
DATA : Aye, sir.
It would require construction and design specifications, fullorthographic representations of the Krieger equipment, as well as visualrepresentations and voice analyses of the persons involved. But it is possible.
The energy signature would seem to indicate a phaser-like blast.
Was there anything else in the lab capable of creating this kind ofenergy discharge?
Source?
Computer, identify type of radiation.
It is definitely the same radiation that penetrated deck thirty nine.
The two radiation events aboard the Enterprise occurred five hours,twenty minutes and three seconds apart. The science station exploded yesterdayat almost four times that interval.
We do not have the evidence to support that conclusion at this time,
DATA : Captain, I believe we have found the source of the radiation. Canyou join us on the Bridge?
As you know, Captain, we are looking for a phenomenon that reoccurs everyfive hours, twenty minutes and three seconds.
We have found one such phenomenon on the planet's surface.
It should not be. It is a harmless lambda field generator.
We now know what is causing the bursts, and why the science stationexploded, sir.
Sensors are reading gravimetric fluctuations, Captain. Most unusual ones.
Nothing I have seen before.
Yes and no. Like a time displacement, but it does not have a discernibleevent horizon.
Confirmed. The phenomenon does not have a definable centre or outer edge.
I do not have sufficient information to make an analysis as yet,
Scanning sensors)
Sensors confirm design and specifications, Captain. Analysis of hull andengine materials conform to engineering patterns and methods of that timeperiod.
Presumed destroyed. The Enterprise C was last seen near the Klingonoutpost Narendra Three exactly twenty two years, three months and four daysago.
It is a possibility, Captain. If that hypothesis is correct, thephenomenon we just encountered would be a temporal rift in space.
Possibly the formation of a Kerr loop from superstring material. It wouldrequire high-energy interactions occurring in the vicinity for such a structureto be formed. The rift is certainly not stable, Captain. It could collapse atany time.
Away team reporting in, sir.
There is a high degree of probability that the temporal rift issymmetrical, Captain.
Back, sir? The Enterprise C would emerge in her own time period at almostthe same instant she left.
Yes, sir.
Perhaps her species has a perception that goes beyond linear time.
Not necessarily meaningless, Commander. The Klingons regard honour aboveall else. If the crew of the Enterprise-C had died fighting for the survival ofa Klingon outpost, it would be considered a meaningful act of honour by the
Engineering. Is Engineering your destination as well?
If I interpret your facial expressions correctly, you are preoccupiedwith something unpleasant.
We may never know what happens. If they succeed, we will not even realisethat these events occurred.
Firing phasers.
The Klingon vessel has recloaked, sir. I have no readings.
DATA : Commander Data to Captain Picard.
DATA : Sir, sensors are showing additional instability in the time rift.
DATA : No, sir.
Shields are holding, sir.
One enemy target hit, sir. Moderate damage to their forward shields. Ourshields are still holding. Minor damage to secondary hull.
One enemy target destroyed, sir.
Shields buckling, Captain. They will not
Fifty two seconds, sir.
Power couplings severed in forward phaser banks. Attempting to bypass.
The phenomenon is closing in on itself, Captain.
Oh, you are early. Just a moment please.
You may enter now. 
I have invited you here to meet someone.
This is Lal. Lal, say hello to Counsellor Deanna Troi
Lal, this is Geordi La Forge.
It is an accepted custom that we wear clothing.
Yes, Wesley. Lal is my child.
Lal has a positronic brain one very similar to my own. I beganprogramming it at the cybernetics conference.
True, but here was a new submicron matrix transfer technology introducedat the conference which I discovered could be used to lay down complex neuralnet pathways.
Exactly, Wesley. I realised for the first time it was possible tocontinue Doctor Soong's work. My initial transfers produced very encouragingresults, so I brought Lal's brain back with me.
I have not observed anyone else on board consulting you about theirprocreation, Captain.
I decided to allow my child to choose its own sex and appearance.
I am sorry, Captain. I did not anticipate your objections. Do you wish meto deactivate Lal?
I have followed all of Starfleet regulations to the best of my ability. Iexpected they would be pleased.
To prepare, I have scanned all available literature on parenting. Thereseems to be much confusion on this issue. One traditional doctrine insists,spare the rod and spoil the child, suggesting a punitive approach. Whileanother more liberal attitude would allow the child enormous freedom.
And what Klingons do to their children
Does that not describe becoming a parent, sir?
That is why I must attempt this, sir. I have observed that in mostspecies, there is a primal instinct to perpetuate themselves. Until now, I havebeen the last of my kind. If I were to be damaged or destroyed, I would be lostforever. But if I am successful with the creation of Lal, my continuance isassured. I understand the risk, sir. and I am prepared to accept theresponsibility.
Correct.
That is why you must choose a gender, Lal, to complete your appearance.
Access your data bank on sexuality, level two. That will define theparameters.
No, Lal. That would be confusing. We are taking you to the holodeck toshow you several thousand composites I have programmed. You may choose fromthem.
This is a big decision
Counsellor? Lal has narrowed the choices to four. Would you like to see?
Computer, Lal gender sequence finalists. Begin. An Andorian female.
That could make socialisation more difficult. A human male.
A human female.
A Klingon male.
I have completed the assembly of the replicated anatomy. I was able toprovide Lal with more realistic skin and eye colour than my own.
This is home, Lal.
Yes. We are a family, Lal. Chair. To sit in. Sit. Good. Painting.
Yes. I will teach you to recognise the artistry in paintings.
Yes, very good, Lal. You have correctly processed the sense of touch.
No, that is a flower, Lal. Inhale.
Yes.
The transfer itself is fairly simple. Each neural pathway in my brain isduplicated precisely in hers. Theoretically, the duplicate brains should beable to store and process the same information but until all of the transfersare complete, we will not know for certain.
She studies in our quarters. She requires very little supervision. Lal isquite self-sufficient.
She already has access to the sum of human knowledge from me.
She is only two weeks old.
Lal, the third crosslink transfer series is complete.
Purpose?
That is a complex question, Lal. I can only begin to answer by tellingyou that our function is to contribute in a positive way to the world in whichwe live.
Because you are my child.
These questions suggest that we have made a successful transfer of theheuristic associative pathways. You will now begin to process information onlogic, aesthetics, metaphysics, and epistemology. You are truly becomingsentient, Lal.
By developing the awareness to examine and question your perceptions.
Tomorrow will be your first day of school, Lal.
A perfect score?
I see.
That would seem to be reasonable.
It is a human physiological response to humour.
Deck fifteen. Lal.
The children were not laughing with you, they were laughing at you.
One is meant kindly, the other is not.
Because you are different. Differences sometimes scare people. I havelearned that some of them use humour to hide their fear.
Doctor? I require your advice as a successful parent.
Lal is realising she is not the same as other children.
She does not feel the emotion of loneliness, but she can observe howisolated she is from the others. She wishes to be more like them. I do not knowhow to help her. Lal is passing into sentience. It is perhaps the mostdifficult stage of her development.
That is precisely what happened to Lal in school. How did you help him?
I have not told Lal how difficult it was for me to assimilate. I did notwish it to discourage her. Perhaps this was an error of judgement.
I can give her attention, Doctor. But I am incapable of giving her love.
Guinan.
Guinan, Lal needs to observe human behaviour.
And for this opportunity, she is willing to provide services to assistyou.
That would be most beneficial.
You have used a verbal contraction.
It is a skill my programme has never mastered.
No. You have exceeded my abilities. I do not object, but I do notunderstand how this has occurred.
Aye, sir.
I am certain the Admiral is anxious to meet Lal. I have been sending himregular status reports on her development.
Her environment, sir?
Then he wishes to relocate us?
I would not be in favour of that, sir. There are many things that she canlearn only from me. My lifetime of experiences. The mistakes I have made andwhat I have learned from them.
Then he is questioning my ability as a parent.
Does the Admiral have children?
I am forced to wonder how much experience he had as a parent when hisfirst child was born.
Commander, what are your intentions toward my daughter?
It is a limitation we must learn to accept, Lal.
I have asked myself that many times as I have struggled to be more human.
It is the difference between knowledge and experience.
So Lal now possesses the sum of my programming.
There do seem to be some variations on the quantum level. She can usecontractions. I cannot.
I have maintained records on positronic matrix activity, behavioralnorms, and all verbal patterns. I have seen no evidence of other aberrations.
Is that not the goal of every parent, sir?
I am programmed with the procedures you mention, sir. And in anymeaningful evaluation of Lal, you would require a model for a basis ofcomparison. I am the only model available, Admiral.
No, sir.
It is an opportunity for her to observe human behaviour and moreimportantly, for her to interact with her crewmates.
May I ask why, sir?
Admiral, when I created Lal, it was in the hope that someday she wouldchoose to enter the Academy and become a member of Starfleet. I wanted to givesomething back in return for all Starfleet has given me. I still do. But Lal ismy child. You ask that I volunteer to give her up. I cannot. It would violateevery lesson I have learned about human parenting. I have brought a new lifeinto this world, and it is my duty, not Starfleet's, to guide her through thesefirst difficult steps to maturity, to support her as she learns, to prepare herto be a contributing member of society. No one can relieve me from thatobligation. And I cannot ignore it. I am her father.
Lal is programmed to return to the lab in the event of a malfunction.
Yes, Lal. I am here.
It appears to be a symptom of cascade failure. It would requireinitialisation the base matrix without wiping out the higher functions.
Thank you, Admiral.
Lal? I am unable to correct the system failure.
We must say goodbye now.
What do you feel, Lal?
I wish I could feel it with you.
Lal suffered complete neural system failure at thirteen hundred hours. Ihave deactivated the unit.
I thank you for your sympathy, but she is here. Her presence so enrichedmy life that I could not allow her to pass into oblivion. So I incorporated herprograms back into my own. I have transferred her memories to me.
The unhatched eggs of a large scaleless
The USS Intrepid was the first ship on the scene, sir.
Commander, I have discovered the basis of the charges against Worf'sfather. Apparently the Klingons recently captured a Romulan ship with logs thatprovided new information on the Khitomer attack. They clearly indicate atransmission from the outpost to the Romulan ship moments before the shieldswent down.
They do correspond to Mogh's personal security code.
I will try, but the Intrepid was at the edge of sensor range during theattack and we cannot be sure if the scan was complete.
Both the Intrepid and Romulan logs show a series of distress signals from
That is where Mogh's alleged transmission should be.
They are no longer synchronous.
Commander, ship's sensors detect an abnormal energy reading in the
Undetermined.
Correct, sir.
A great deal, sir. It is a rotating neutron star of approximately fourpoint three five six solar masses.
Aye, sir.
Enter.
You are always welcome, Captain.
That beats my fours.
Commander, there is still one fact we have not considered. The abnormalenergy reading in the Captain's quarters was never explained.
Sir, at twenty million kilometres, our shields will only be effective foreighteen minutes.
Aye, sir.
Captain, number four shield has failed. Increasing power to number threeshield to compensate.
Sir, at that distance, the ship will not withstand the magnetic fieldsand radiation. We will not survive.
Captain, sensors report the USS Hood is closing on an intercept course athigh warp.
Sir, the Hood is slowing to impulse.
Sir.
I am Data. An android.
Our destination is the Beta Stromgren system, following the path of the
That is correct, Commander. Apparently the probe has discovered.
Our orders are to proceed to this star, Beta Stromgren. Scientists havediscovered that it is in the final stages of an alternating cycle of expansionand collapse, and will soon result in a supernova. However, the unmanned longrange space probe sent by Starfleet to observe the process has discoveredsomething much more.
They routinely monitor the telemetry of our deep space probes.
That is correct. Starbase one two three has detected two D'daridex classcruisers on an intercept course. The top speed of this class cruiser is knownto be less than ours. Therefore we do have some advantage.
Aye, sir.
Since there is no known natural phenomenon capable of travel at warpvelocities, there are but two possibilities. Either it is a sensor malfunction,another ship is following us covertly.
Agreed.
Lieutenant, continue monitoring the precise position of the echo. Anysudden change in its behaviour, initiate Yellow Alert.
Captain, we are receiving relayed sensor data from the Vega Probe,including visuals.
In fact, we are, Commander. However
Captain, it would appear that the Romulan's intent is to contact Tin Manfirst, at any cost. According to my sensor readings, the warbird has exceededmaximum engine output by thirty percent. They seem to have irreparable damageto their warp coils.
Aye, sir.
Yes. I have configured these instruments to display information withgreater speed and efficiency than stations used by the others.
Spartan?
I have tried it from time to time. But you are correct. I do not requirerest.
The creature's anatomy appears most peculiar.
It is indeed laid out as a vessel with what appear to be corridors andchambers. An internal environment suitable for carbon based life forms is beingmaintained, yet there is no evidence of a crew aboard. Tin Man is a livingbeing which has been bred or has adapted itself to serve a purpose. I find thatinteresting.
I do not believe I am qualified to express an opinion.
You said in the transporter room that you could not read my mind.
Perhaps there is nothing to read. Nothing more than mechanisms andalgorithmic responses.
Captain, the Romulan ship is hailing the alien using their equivalent oflinguacode.
Nothing so far, Commander.
Captain, I agree that Tam's motives are trustworthy, and I do not believeit is possible that he will act against us, or will cause Tin Man to actagainst us out of malice.
I am puzzled, sir. We have come this far. Are you not going to allow Tamto fulfill his mission?
I believe I understand, sir. If you feel the risk is too great to send
But he is more comfortable with me, sir. It is humanity he is fleeing.
Tam?
Data to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
If it is harming you, we must return. Enterprise, respond.
There is a large chamber twenty metres ahead.
Intriguing.
Is that the purpose of existence? To care for someone?
I must remind you that our objective is to bring Tin Man out of dangerand report our findings to Starfleet.
But our mission
Sir?
Difficult to explain, Captain.
I believe he found what he was looking for, Counsellor.
Yes, Counsellor. It was Tam's final request that I explain his decisionto the crew. But I believe his hope was that you would understand.
I witnessed something remarkable. Individually they were both so
Yes. But no longer. Through joining they have been healed. Grief has beentransmuted to joy. Loneliness to belonging.
Yes, Counsellor. When Tin Man returned me to the Enterprise, I realisedthis is where I belong.
Pardon me, but why is Lieutenant Barclay being referred to clandestinelyas a vegetable?
Nicknames generally denote fondness, a diminutive shared between friends.
Nucleosynthesis. The structure of the glass has been altered at theatomic level.
Unlikely. A problem with the replicator would have affected the contentsas well as the glass. But the liquid in the glass was a synthehol replicationof a light ale of Earth origin, which is, I believe what Lieutenant Duffyordered.
The most probable explanation is that the glass came into contact with anunshielded power source.
Then it is possible these two very disparate incidents could be related.
It was Lieutenant Barclay who first suggested a link between the twoincidents.
Metathesis is one of the most common of pronunciation errors, sir. Areversal of vowel and consonant, Barc to Broc.
You are outnumbered, Mister Barclay. Say you will yield and it ends here.
Compensating, sir.
The matter-antimatter injectors locked for a split second. I am notcertain why, sir. They appear to be working properly now.
Controls are not responding, sir.
Speed increasing, sir. Warp seven point six, seven point six five. Warpseven point seven.
At this rate of acceleration, fifteen minutes forty seconds, sir.
The plasma flow to the nacelles is uneven due to injector lock. Anemergency saucer separation could rupture the warp field.
Twelve minutes to structural failure, sir.
Injector conduit temperature minus one hundred degrees Celsius.
Ready, sir. Temperature now minus one hundred ninety degrees. Minus twohundred degrees, sir.
Matter injector is online. Antimatter injector still locked.
Antimatter injector online. Reducing flow capacity. Commencing warpengine shut down, sir.
Data to Enterprise.
This will be the last trip, sir.
DATA : The remaining cases of hytritium are now being loaded. 
Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure. Enterpriseshuttlebay two, prepare for docking, level one precautions for incomingmaterial remain in effect.
What am I doing here?
Why have I been brought here?
I've been delivered here against my wishes. I would like to know thereason.
Am I to infer that you intend to keep me captive?
It is my name.
I wish to leave.
This is unacceptable, sir. I have no desire to remain here and even if Idid, my Starfleet duties would not allow it.
Then I am forced to attempt escape.
Then you will have to open it for me.
I fail to understand the value you place on my presence.
Dali. This is the only known Roger Maris trading card from Earthcirca 1962. The smell? Bubblegum. I've preserved the scent. What? A Lapling.
I thought they were extinct.
I am not, sir. Most intelligent lifeforms find involuntary confinementoffensive and inequitable. Moreover, you have violated Federation law
I must emphasize, Mister Fajo, that I consider this captivity a hostileact on your part.
I have no reason to accede to Mister Fajo's wishes.
Mister Fajo is deluding himself if he believes he can keep me here. The
They will scan the debris and discover I was not aboard.
Clearly, Mister Fajo has no moral difficulty with my imprisonment here.
Do you?
Yes. Are you my enemy?
Why?
Do you object to the question?
It appears he has us both.
I am a Starfleet officer.
Even if I chose to do so, it is doubtful that my programming could besufficiently altered to accede to your wishes.
I have been designed with a fundamental respect for life in all its formsand a strong inhibition against causing harm to living beings.
My skills seemed appropriate
No, but I am programmed with the ability to use deadly force in the causeof defense.
I would not participate in murder. Perhaps you misunderstand.
You are a fine debater, sir. It is a pity you have used your verbal giftsfor mere hucksterism and the advancement of your own greed.
Your past does not excuse unethical or immoral behaviour, sir.
I must decline.
Finoplak, one hundred denkirs. 
DATA : Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare fordocking. Level one precautions remain in effect.
DATA : Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare fordocking. Level one precautions remain in effect. Shuttle has cleared the Joviscargo bay.
DATA : Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure. Enterpriseshuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect.
You may expect me to use every means at my disposal to resist yourwishes.
I do not intend to sit in the chair.
It is a disruptor.
The Varon-T disruptor is banned in the Federation.
It is a most lethal weapon.
It is doubtful you will destroy me since you assign so much value topossessing me.
Fajo.
The consequences if we are caught
Perhaps I should attempt to communicate with the Enterprise.
I am trained in evasive manoeuvres.
You will surrender yourself to the authorities.
I cannot permit this to continue.
Yes, Commander. Please arrange to take Kivas Fajo into custody on chargesof murder, kidnapping, theft.
A Varon-T disruptor. It belongs to Fajo.
Perhaps something occurred during transport, Commander.
I expected nothing.
So it seems.
Unlikely, sir. Your collection has been confiscated. All of your stolenpossessions are being returned to their rightful owners. You have losteverything you value.
No, sir, it does not. I do not feel pleasure. I am only an android.
I have been programmed to reproduce the individual musical styles of overthree hundred concert violinists, including Heifetz, Menuhin, Grak-tay and
I hope you find the performance pleasing.
Yes. It is normally occupied by Captain Picard, Commander Riker, and
Half-Betazoid. Her father was human.
Her skills are empathic in nature. She is able to sense the emotions ofother beings.
Extensive. The Captain's first diplomatic contact dates back to
Do you foresee such a circumstance occurring? Is Ambassador Sarek unableto
DATA : Aye, sir.
Captain Picard is not satisfied with Ki Mendrossen's assurances that the
You have voiced certain reservations to me about his abilities.
Not directly, no. But you did question me about the diplomaticcapabilities of both Captain Picard and Counsellor Troi.
Then you must decide which is your greater obligation. Your loyalty to
Sakkath has been able, until recently, to use his telepathic skills toreinforce Sarek's emotional control, thus protecting others from the effects ofhis deterioration.
The strain of this mission on Sarek has made it impossible.
Sir, it is conceivable, even for me, that time will eventually lead toirreparable circuit failure. But there is one thing I do not understand. Sarekis a logical, intelligent being. The effects of Bendii Syndrome are apparent.
Captain. Commander.
Commander, the Legarans are ready to beam aboard.
Perhaps your telepathic abilities are ineffective owing to the anomalousconstruction of the Ferengi brain, which is composed of four different
That is correct, sir. Although Commander La Forge and I designed thechip, Mister Crusher derived the equation governing its operation.
Enterprise? Must be too far out of range.
Wesley, congratulations on passing your Starfleet written examination. Anexcellent achievement.
There is no guarantee that Wesley will be reassigned to the Enterprise.
Is that not a part of the human experience? Growth and change?
Initial scans of ionisation patterns complete, sir. Now correlatingsensor readings.
Actually, it is five point three four times ten to the forty first watts,sir. Well within the norm for this type of phenomena.
Lieutenant Foley discovered this in the pond.  The speciesis Zan Periculi. It is not indigenous to Betazed, but to Lappa Four. A Ferengiworld.
Do you wish to leave orbit, sir?
Ferengi transmissions are routinely scrambled and encoded, sir. Withoutbreaking the code, we will be unable to identify any specific Ferengi vessel.
The repetitive nature of the subcarrier pattern would imply a modified
Mister Crusher is correct, sir. There is a temporal correlation.
Seven, six
Radiation levels within acceptable limits.
I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around theplanet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds.
It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will requirefabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's computer system.
Aye, sir.
I agree Geordi. But the data matrix within the capsule does notcorrespond to any standard format. All we have been able to determine is thatthe device contains a chemically based system for molecular energy encoding.
The compact shape does suggest a rapid chemical processing and storagecapacity.
An intriguing experiment. The capsule might provide us with informationwithout the need to decode the storage medium itself. Perhaps we should examineyour theory immediately.
Are you suggesting that it employs memory RNA like an organic cell?
Perhaps the information sequences are encoded in the molecular patternsthemselves.
It appears that your hypothesis was correct, Geordi.
We have determined that the storage cube from John Doe's escape podcontains navigational information.
Computer, run transformational matrix calculations. Match navigationalreferents to known stars in this sector.
Computer, assume those paths are course corrections and derivegravitational values for stellar objects near those flight paths.
Most of these are ordinary G-type stars. This would appear to be aneutron star, possibly a pulsar.
Computer, assume these symbols are pulsars. Translate associated valuesinto standard temporal notations. Computer, is there a pulsar with a rotationalperiod of one point five two four four seconds within sensor range?
That bearing is almost directly along our planned course, sir.
Captain, the ship is travelling at warp nine point seven two.
At present course and speed, ten hours fifty three minutes.
DATA : Captain, the alien vessel is coming within weapons range. Itsshields are up.
Captain, on screen. Alien vessel approaching at half impulse, sir.
They are scanning us, Captain.
I am afraid I cannot answer that Wesley. And as you are a newcomer to thegame, may I say it is inappropriate for you to ask. I will buy another card,
Not necessarily. Commander Riker may be bluffing, Wesley.
Early bird? I believe Commander Shelby erred. There is no evidence ofavifaunal or crawling vermicular lifeforms on Jouret Four.
That is a reasonable conclusion. Borg technology has given each member oftheir society the ability to interface and function collectively. It is likelythey have constructed their ship with the same philosophy.
One hour, seventeen minutes, sir.
Uncertain, Commander, but the dimensions are precisely the same.
Holding, sir.
Still no damage to the Borg vessel, sir.
Eleven dead, eight more unaccounted for, Captain.
Eighty two percent dilithium hydroxyls. Magnesium, chromium. It shouldprovide an effective screen against their sensors, Captain.
Conceivably, the ship's power distribution nodes are vulnerable to thosefrequencies.
Two hours, forty minutes and three seconds.
At our first encounter, the Borg virtually ignored us when we beamedaboard their vessel. Clearly they did not consider our being there a threat tothem.
These appear to be some kind of power wave guide conduits which allowthem to work collectively as they perform ship functions.
Interesting metaphor, Doctor. What is your idea?
Distribution nodes.
We were unable to retrieve him, sir. Sir, The Captain has been altered bythe Borg.
We were unable to retrieve him, sir. Sir, The Captain has been altered bythe Borg.
DATA : Data to Riker. Message from Starfleet, Captain.
DATA : Starfleet reports
It has engaged the Borg at Wolf three fifty nine, sir.
Admiral Hanson on subspace, Captain.
Thank you, sir.
Doctor Crusher and I have been working on an interesting premise.
Robots small enough to enter living cells.
No active subspace fields. Negligible power readings.
Negative, sir.
It could indicate the course of the Borg ship, sir.
Aye, Captain.
Shuttle launch sequence confirmed. Departing Enterprise in exactly threeseconds.
The shuttle escape transporter should provide enough power to beam us
DATA : Onto the Borg ship from here, sir
Firing shuttle thrusters.
Using multimodal reflection sorting, I have been able to detect a complexseries of subspace signals between Locutus and the Borg ship.
It is not just a matter of control, Doctor. The signals are interactiveacross a subspace domain similar to that of a Transporter beam. I wouldhypothesise that these frequencies form the basis of the Borg's collectiveconsciousness.
Possibly. But as you may recall on several occasions, we have witnessedthe Borg removing key circuits from injured comrades, no doubt separating themfrom the group consciousness.
That is correct, sir.
Then perhaps there is a way I can access the machine, Doctor.
The initial cybernetic connection into Captain Picard's neural netpathways has been established. Mister O'Brien is ready to process the Borgsignal through the transport pattern buffer.
Proceeding immediately, sir. Data out.
The neural link will be established in three stages. Doctor, I suggestyou closely observe Captain Picard's lifesigns, while at each stage Chief
I do not know. I have never done this before. Initiating first neurallink.
First neural connection is confirmed. I cannot report any significantaccess to the Borg consciousness.
Second neural connection is confirmed. I still cannot report anysignificant access. Proceeding with the final link.
Neural connections complete. I have access to the Borg subspace signals.
Stand by. Processing. Processing. Fascinating. The Borg groupconsciousness is divided into subcommands necessary to carry out all functions.
Negative. The subspace signal configuration is unchanged. What is causingthe increased neural activity is unclear.
DATA : I have been unable to create a neural path around the Borg implants,sir. It is Captain Picard himself who has somehow managed to initiate contact.
Sir, it is clear the Borg are either unwilling or unable to terminatetheir subspace links.
It is conceivable, sir, but it would require altering the pathway fromthe root command
DATA : To affect all iterative branch points in the
DATA : Sir
What command shall I try to plant?
Attempting to re-route subcommand paths, Captain. Defence systems areprotected by access barriers.
I am unable to penetrate defence systems command structure
DATA : Captain.
DATA : Acknowledged.
Attempting new power subcommand path.
I cannot penetrate Borg power subcommand structure, sir.
DATA : All critical subcommands are protected, Captain.
Yes, Doctor, but if I may make a supposition, I do not believe hismessage was intended to express fatigue but to suggest a course of action.
DATA : Data to Bridge. Stand by.
I am attempting to penetrate the Borg regenerative subcommand path. It isa low priority system and may be accessible.
DATA : Stand by.
I successfully planted a command into the Borg collective consciousness,sir. It misdirected them to believe it was time to regenerate. In effect, I putthem all to sleep.
DATA : Yes, sir.
We should also consider the advantages of further examination of the Borgand their vessel, sir.
Sir, may I remind you that during the Galen border conflict, it was acommon tactic of the Talarians was to abandon their observation craft, rig themto self destruct
That particular guerrilla manoeuvre resulted in two hundred and nineteenfatalities over a three day period.
Negative, sir. The Talarians employ a subspace proximity detonator. It isnot detectable by our scans.
DATA : Data to Picard.
DATA : We have received a subspace communiqué from Starfleet Commandregarding the young human, sir.
By matching DNA gene types, Starfleet was able to identify the boy as
She is his grandmother, Captain. He was born fourteen years ago on the
The boy was listed as missing, presumed dead.
The Talarians are a rigidly patriarchical society, sir.
Q'Maire at station, holding steady at bearing zero one three, mark zeroone five. Distance five oh six kilometres.
Negative, sir.
Talarian warships are limited to neutral particle weapons, high energy X-ray lasers and merculite rockets. No match for the Enterprise, Captain.
If Endar respects Talarian custom, he may have to. According to theirtradition, a male child of fourteen has reached the age of decision. He thenundergoes a ceremony of initiation, after which he has the freedom to make hisown choices.
That is called a spoon.
I fail to understand why this is amusing.
Comedy stressing farce and horseplay. Ah. This, no doubt, is a variationon pie in the face?
No, sir, but I will take your word for it. It is very amusing.
DATA : On my way, sir.
They've been made fully aware of the situation, sir.
Aye, sir.
Fortunately we are only two days from Starbase four one six, and theirlaboratory can isolate
Computer. Recognise Data, Lieutenant Commander. Alpha One clearance.
Maintain minimum auxiliary power and disengage subspace communications.
 Computer, recognise Picard, Jean-Luc. Alpha
Cancel separation sequence.
Isolate all remaining command functions and accept related orders andinquiries from main Bridge only.
Computer, configure a perimeter field charge, sections Nine K through
Computer, prepare to transport me directly to the following coordinates.
Can you override?
Show me the shortest route to Transporter room one. Computer, prepare toactivate cascade force field sequence in the following progression.
 Computer, establish a security code for access to allfunctions previously transferred to Bridge.
One seven three four six seven three two one four seven six Charlie threetwo seven eight nine seven seven seven six four three Tango seven three two
Computer, initiate cascade sequence, accepting instructions from
Intersection eight J, aft port. Establish.
Computer, begin scan phase.
Computer, three metre cross seal.
I fail to recall how I arrived here.
And who are you, sir? Data to Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me?
We were heading for a medical facility. I was taking the boy's brother to
I must find a way to contact the Enterprise.
You do bear a resemblance to Doctor Noonian Soong, the cyberneticist whoconstructed me. But, Doctor Soong was killed shortly afterward by the
But the colony was destroyed. There were no survivors.
It is really you.
Sir?
It was Starfleet officers who rescued me.
What choice of vocation would have met with your approval, sir?
To follow in your footsteps, as it were?
May I ask you a question, sir?
Why did you create me?
Old things?
There are many possible explanations.
Perhaps, for humans, old things represent a tie to the past.
Humans are mortal. They seem to need a sense of continuity.
To give their lives meaning. A sense of purpose.
I suppose it is a factor in the human desire to procreate.
It is a reasonable explanation to your query, sir.
Lore!
I implore you, do not reactivate him.
But he admitted to an alliance with the Crystal Entity. To gain itsfavour, he betrayed the colonists and would have betrayed the Enterprise aswell had I not
I had no alternative. You would have destroyed the Enterprise.
Dying from what, sir?
Lore told me the colonists envied him because you made him so completelyhuman.
Lore also told me the colonists petitioned you to replace him with a lessperfect android.
It was a lie. Another lie.
I am not less perfect than Lore.
I am not less perfect than Lore.
I question your sincerity, Lore.
But sir, Lore was responsible for
He surprised me.
What has happened here? Doctor. Doctor Soong.
Lore, sir. He was inadvertently summoned here by the same signal whichactivated my homing circuitry. It seems that after nearly two years ininterstellar space, he was
I was unaware of having caused any inconvenience, sir.
But sir, our medical facility may be able to
May I say goodbye to Doctor Soong, sir? Alone, sir?
Do you believe that we are in some ways alike, sir?
Then it is alright for you to die, because I will remain alive. You knowthat I cannot grieve for you, sir.
Goodbye, Father.
Yes, sir. The boys appear to have reconciled their differences.
I have scanned the entire ship, Captain. Other than the Enterprise'sregular complement, I can find no one else onboard.
That is correct, Doctor.
We can easily check the transporter ID traces.
Aye, sir.
Sir, Starbase one three three has no record at all of a Doctor Dalen
Not according to their computer. I have also accessed Starfleet records.
I do not doubt you, Doctor, but I have tried one hundred seventy threephonetic variations of the name, and I
I am afraid ship's records do not concur. Doctor.
You do not have a staff.
Excuse me, Doctor, but the entire ship's complement is two hundred andthirty.
Sir, I have completed level one computer diagnostics. There are nomalfunctions.
The Wellington is the only Federation vessel in this sector. It reportsnormal operations. A Ferengi ship within communications range also reportsnothing unusual.
Yes, Doctor.
There are one hundred and fourteen people on the Enterprise.
That is the exact number there should be.
Transportation of colonists, diplomatic missions, emergency evacuations.
Captain, approaching Starbase one three three.
Captain, we have re-established exact coordinates and attitude.
I will raise you three.
I will see your ten, and raise you twenty.
It will cost you twenty to make that determination, sir.
Yes sir, I believe I have.
Your guidance is much valued, Counsellor. However.
Eleven.
Not at all, Counsellor. You surreptitiously placed the edge of your leftthumb against the card. When you divided the deck to reshuffle, you kept thatcard on top. You thus were able to have me either save or discard, depending onthe location of the card, which you followed at each step until we were leftwith just one. The card I originally chose. Sir, I believe under thecircumstances
We will be entering the Turkana system in eleven minutes, Captain.
Stable. But we have maintained warp factor nine for longer than isrecommended, sir.
Seven minutes and fifteen seconds will bring us within transporter range,
We are now entering the Turkana system, sir.
Visual contact.
I am reading an ion trail characteristic of a freighter escape pod.
That is exactly where the ion trail is leading, Commander.
The last Federation vessel to make contact was the Potemkin, six yearsago. They were warned that anyone transporting down to the colony would bekilled.
The surface settlement appears to be all but destroyed. Sensors show thatthe colonists now live in structures that extend nearly three kilometresbeneath the city.
The dispersion trail continues in this direction. The concentrationgradient definitely increases along this vector. The escape pod was apparentlymoved into the tunnels ahead of us.
A former crewman was born here.
She was killed in the line of duty.
Welcome to the Enterprise, Ishara. I am Commander Data.
I am an android.
On what do you base that assumption?
The Enterprise is not a ship of war. It is a ship of exploration.
My orders are to escort you to the Observation Lounge. Please come withme.
Your sister never spoke of you.
It is surprising to me. Tasha and I spent much time together. We had aconsiderable number of conversations.
Only to say that she was lucky to have escaped.
Cowardice is a term that I have never heard applied to Tasha.
No. It is just that for a moment, the expression on your face reminded meof her.
A sensing device from the escape pod. It monitors the bioelectricsignatures of the crew, in the event they get separated from the pod.
She would have to be armed, sir.
Tasha exists in our memories as well.
Lieutenant Yar was killed on Vagra Two by a malevolent entity.
No. She was killed as a demonstration of the creature's power, withoutprovocation.
What is this structure?
Tactical station. Where Lieutenant Worf is now.
Yes. She was especially close to Commander Riker and Lieutenant Worf. Andto myself.
Yes.
Not as such. However, even among humans, friendship is sometimes less anemotional response and more a sense of familiarity.
Exactly. As I experience certain sensory input patterns, my mentalpathways become accustomed to them. The inputs eventually are anticipated, andeven missed when absent.
Yes, like your sister.
We could remove the implant.
A small force field containing xenon or another inert gas could be placedover the incision site. The explosive could possibly be disarmed at the sametime it is removed.
And Tasha did not?
Thank you. I would like to consider you my friend as well.
Ishara is willing to have the implant removed, sir.
She also expressed a desire to leave the colony. She hopes to apply tothe Academy and eventually join Starfleet.
She claims to, Captain.
Yes, Counsellor?
We must free the crewmen. She appears to be our best hope of doing so. Inaddition, I have become used to her.
Ishara.
You are welcome. Doctor Crusher is expecting you in Sickbay.
To what are you referring?
But I do have something to gain from it. Your continued presence on thisship. Is something wrong?
If you desire privacy, you may use the Observation lounge.
Have you reconsidered your decision to stay with us?
Ishara. What are you doing? The fusion generator is overloading. You areattempting to disable the defence system. For what reason? We have rescued thecrewmen.
The Federation will be responsible for the resulting deaths. I cannotallow that.
That is not so.
We will both be destroyed by the explosion.
Was this your intention from the beginning?
Our help was not deliberate. You deceived us.
Your friendship with me was part of the deception, was it not? You misledme at each step, and yet I was completely unaware.
My duty requires me to intercede.
Disabling the detection system so her forces could attack.
What do you wish to talk about?
I am an android. It is not possible for me to be injured in that fashion.
Energise.
Recent events have left me puzzled, sir. It has been days since Isharaleft, and yet my thoughts seem to dwell on her. Almost as if I wereexperiencing a feedback loop in my mnemonic network.
It is curious that I was so easily misled.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Were you prepared, sir?
Then it is better not to trust.
And yet you put yourself at risk.
Perhaps I am fortunate, sir, to be spared the emotional consequences.
No changes, Commander. I can detect no abnormalities in the star'sradiant energy.
Probes ready, Captain.
The word excuses implies ulterior motives for a conflict.
Channel is open, sir. Vorn responding to hail.
The explosive was a triceron derivative.
Only one race uses that device, sir.
If true, it would represent a fundamental shift of power in the quadrant.
If Lieutenant Worf resists, sir?
Sir. I find it interesting how much importance humans place oncelebrating the day of their birth. A day they cannot possibly remember.
It appears we are being probed, sir.
The third planet of the Alpha Onias system. Our reports list it aspresently uninhabited. Perhaps reports were incorrect, sir.
Although Alpha Onias three is a class M planet, our survey teams havelisted it as barren and inhospitable.
No, sir, but we have traced residual energy readings to a cavern twokilometres beneath the surface.
It is possible.
Welcome back, Captain. We were not expecting to see you on the Bridge sosoon.
Do you remember, sir?
On screen.
Captain, we were expecting the Decius. There is no cause for alarm.
Certainly, sir.
Ambassador, you may find this of interest. These newly refined sensorsare capable of pinpointing the power emissions of a cloaked warbird even atwarp.
 At warp one, in three days, four hours.
Pardon me, sir. I am experiencing subspace interference which limits myabilities. I can't operate as quickly as
I said I cannot operate
Sir, I can explain if you would just give me a moment.
There is no question about it, sir. It is his signal.
No, sir, we are out of range.
Negative, Commander.
Shuttlecraft has cleared the bay, sir.
Scanning. Vessel reads as an unmanned sublight freighter.
Indeterminate. Propulsion appears to employ a gaseous core fissionreactor, but it is not functioning.
No, sir. Engine reactor elements appear to have been inactive forapproximately three hundred years. The vessel is carrying various unstablewaste products.
Precisely.
Sir, the Meltasion asteroid belt lies between here and the sun.
Structural integrity of the barge has been compromised. Disintegration iscontinuing.
External radiation levels increasing, sir.
At the rate the radiation levels are increasing, the hyronalin additivewill only be effective for another thirty eight minutes.
Fifty one minutes, fourteen seconds, sir.
Tractor beam is holding. Shearing force, eighty metric tons per metre.
Shearing force ninety two metric tons. Ninety three. Tractor beam isdestabilising. Se are going to lose the barge, Commander.
Shearing force is at one hundred three metric tons. Tractor beam isstable.
Tractor beam is holding.
We have cleared the asteroids, sir.
It is definitely debris. The primary material is duranium, with smallerproportions of sonodanite and ermanium.
Not necessarily, Doctor. There is far too little debris to account for anentire shuttlecraft.
The only Class M planets in the system are Pentarus two and five, both ofwhich have been thoroughly searched by the miners.
Sir, there are also four moons in the Pentarus system that could supportlife.
Lambda Paz, one of the moons of Pentarus three.
Uncertain. I have no unusual readings, Commander.
An aggregate field of plane-polarised objects has just appeared. Anddisappeared.
I have completed another full scan of the area, sir. There is no furtherindication of the anomaly.
A resumption of our present course at warp six will place us in the T'lli
I have discovered, sir, a certain level of impatience when I calculate alengthy time interval to the nearest second. However, if you wish
All decks reporting minor injuries only.
None, sir.
Integrity field stress exceeding eighty two million kilodynes. Recommendimmediate shutdown, sir.
No other ship is indicated.
Indeed, there are many races that are not empathically detectable. The
Probe launch successful. Telemetry transmissions are being received.
Expanding analysis parameters. Including Bayesian functions, broad EM andsubspace spectrum polling.
I am adding virtual particle trajectories.
Unknown. I am attempting to analyse motion pattern. Results stillinconclusive.
The probe's point of view reveals that the objects exist entirely in twodimensions, on a single plane.
That is why the ship's forward sensors did not detect them initially. Wewere looking at them along their edge. There was no surface to read. I willillustrate.
The movement pattern within the cluster is not a naturally occurringphenomenon in the Newtonian sense. They appear to be alive.
Integrity-field pressure has increased by two hundred seventeen percent,
Sir, during our attempt to break away, I recorded a momentary alterationof the movement pattern within the cluster.
Perhaps, but just for an instant. The pattern immediately returned to itsprevious dynamic.
Aye, sir.
Yes, Commander. Sensors are detecting highly accelerated interstellargases.
Uncertain, sir. The phenomenon is within visual range.
It appears to be a cosmic string fragment. Only one hundred sevenkilometres long.
The two-dimensional beings seem to be caught in the gravitational pull ofthe string. Their course is taking them directly toward it.
The entities offer no indication that they are aware of the stringfragment, Captain. Their course and speed remain constant.
It is unclear what affect a photon torpedo would have on a two-dimensional beings, sir.
Probe has been launched. On screen.
There is no change in the graviton field. The torpedoes are having noeffect, sir.
Matter-antimatter explosions appear to be ineffective, sir.
Possibly. However, the beings may perceive them as negligible noiserather than an attempt at communication.
Negative. The nature of their movement suggests a simple order ofintelligence.
As I have no human instinct per se, I cannot advise you, Counsellor.
I do not believe there is any way we can know for certain, Counsellor.
The only evidence we have at present is the brief interruption in theirmovement pattern during our last attempt to break away.
Otherwise their course and speed have been constant.
Because the cluster is two-dimensional, I do not have enough directevidence to support that assumption. However, it is the most reasonablehypothesis.
It is unlikely they would intentionally move toward a destructive force.
Pardon me?
Please continue.
If Counsellor Troi's supposition is correct, a replica of the stringprojected behind the cluster could induce them to reverse course, disruptingthe graviton wake long enough for us to escape.
I do not suggest simulating the gravitational field of the stringfragment, rather the string's vibration.
Frequency-scan detectors engaged.
DATA : Stand by.
I am differentiating particle-emission signatures now.
Sir, shear force turbulence is impairing our ability to create anaccurate simulation.
Electromagnetic and subspace wave fronts approaching synchronisation. 
Increasing by fifty percent.
DATA : In reference to your most recent letter, I agree that your studylacks sufficient primary source information on my programming and operation.
Commander Riker, you are fifteen minutes early.
Thank you, sir.
I cannot become nervous, sir. However, I do sense a certain anticipationregarding my role in the wedding.
All systems normal, sir. Sickbay reports that Lieutenant Juarez went intolabour at zero four hundred hours. We remain at station awaiting the arrival of
Aye, sir.
DATA : Initially, Commander Maddox, I found it difficult to maintainfriendships, since human emotions are often puzzling to me.
DATA : Eventually, I developed a programme enabling me to predict humanemotional responses to specific actions.
It is time for the wedding rehearsal.
You do not wish to rehearse?
May I ask why?
Have your feelings for Chief O'Brien changed?
Will cancelling the wedding make you happy?
If you wish.
DATA : My friend Chief O'Brien often says that above all else, he wants tomake Keiko happy. Since cancelling the wedding will make her happy, I mustconclude the Chief will be pleased at her decision.
I have good news.
Keiko has made a decision designed to increase her happiness. She hascancelled the wedding.
DATA : Commander Maddox, it would appear that my programme designed topredict the emotional responses needs adjustment.
Energise.
Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Ambassador.
DATA : Sine I am not affected by emotional considerations, I am closer tobeing Vulcan than human. However, while their devotion to logic does have acertain appeal, I find their stark philosophy to be somewhat limited.
DATA : The tone of Commander Riker's voice makes me suspect that he is notserious about finding Ambassador T'Pel charming. My experience suggests that infact he may mean the exact opposite of what he says. irony is a form ofexpression I have not yet been able to master.
DATA : Friendly insults and jibes, another form of human speech that I amattempting to master, in this case with the help of Commander Geordi La Forge.
DATA : I consider Geordi to be my best friend.
My hair does not require trimming, you lunkhead.
My hair does not require trimming
I am experimenting with friendly jibes and insults. It was not meant as aserious disparagement.
No. Geordi, I am still confused by Chief O'Brien's reaction this morning.
Cold feet? Jitters. A nervous reaction to an impending event of greatimportance.
She will?
So you believe the wedding will still proceed?
DATA : I find Lieutenant Worf to be what is called a kindred spirit. Wewere both orphans rescued by Starfleet officers. In many ways, we are bothstill outsiders in human society.
Are you here to find a wedding gift?
I would appreciate your help in selecting an appropriate item.
This is a traditional gift?
It is my understanding that the item selected should reflect thepersonality of whoever is giving it. This does not remind me of you. Have youever been an actual participant in a human wedding?
You would not consider it to be an honour?
Dancing.
DATA : I am rarely in need of Doctor Beverly Crusher's professionalservices as my bio-mechanical maintenance programme is self sufficient. But Ioften observe as she practices medicine on others and have learned a great dealabout human interaction from her.
Doctor, may I ask a favour of you?
Would you teach me how to dance?
I would like to learn how to dance.
It was in your service record. Awarded first prize tap and jazzcompetition, Saint Louis Academy.
Have I said something to upset you?
Then your answer is no.
Of course, Doctor.
Acknowledged.
Captain, is there a specific area you wish me to study?
DATA : It is fortunate that I am able to perform my duties withoutemotional distractions. If that were not the case, a sudden course correctiontoward the Neutral Zone would make me very nervous.
DATA : Personal Log, supplemental. Commander Maddox, there are still manydynamics of social interaction which I do not understand.
Their ships are deployed to support a policy of confrontation designed totest Federation defenses along the Neutral Zone.
I project a ninety percent probability that they will continue to supportthat policy.
No, sir.
Feline supplement seventy four.
Computer, run fluidic sensor diagnostic.
Come in.
No. Would you care to sit down?
DATA : When one of my friends is distraught, I have learnt that thethoughtful thing to do is to attempt to make him feel more comfortable.
May I offer you some refreshment, Chief?
There is no need to apologise. I was not offended. Would you like apillow or a more comfortable chair to sit upon?
Perhaps you would like some music? Brahms? Aurelia?
Would Counsellor Troi not be a more appropriate choice to speak with
I do not know what to say to her.
Perhaps she has not fully analysed her decision. I will try.
DATA : Commander Maddox, I noted that Keiko was quite calm and rationalwhen she informed me of her decision this morning. Therefore, I can predictthat she will respond to an objective analysis of the situation based on theavailable facts. It is fortunate that she has not let emotional considerationscloud her judgement. It should make my task much simpler.
I believe you made an incorrect analysis of the facts at hand.
You do not seem happy.
Your decision was based on the assumption that cancelling the weddingwould bring you happiness. This has proved to be incorrect.
Since your action did not produce the desired results, the only advisablesolution should be to re-examine your decision making process, and look forerrors.
That fact is not in dispute. However, you may have acted with undue hasteand in doing so, unintentionally hurt Chief O'Brien's feelings.
I am your friend.
If I have offended.
DATA : It is clear that I need guidance to resolve this situation.
DATA : In many ways, Deanna Troi is the friend that I understand the least.
Chief O'Brien talks to me. Keiko talks to you. Why do they not talk toeach other?
Many aspects of this situation are puzzling to me. I have been studyingvarious texts on the subject of marriage, but I have not found a suitableguide.
In an effort to be helpful, I am attempting to calculate the variablesinvolved in a successful marriage.
There are many opinions. On Galvin Five, a marriage is consideredsuccessful only if children are produced within a year of the wedding. Andorianmarriages require groups of four people unless
But I am their friend. Should I not stand with them in a time ofdifficulty?
Do you believe it to be the right decision for them to marry?
To grow old together? That is an integral component of marriage?
Although I am an android, I have not excluded the possibility that I,too, may someday marry.
I believe I have much to offer a potential mate. However, we cannot growold together because I will not grow old.
Acknowledged.
That is correct, Ambassador.
The code is valid.
May I ask the purpose of your request?
I have the same safeguards as the ship's computer. Therefore, I mustreport any inquiry regarding restricted information to the Captain. Yourreaction suggests you do not wish the Captain to be informed of your inquiry.
DATA : Commander Maddox, I have often wished for the sense that humans callintuition or instinct. Since Vulcans are incapable of lying, I must accept the
It appears to be quite suitable, Doctor.
Am I dancing, Doctor?
Doctor, perhaps it would be beneficial to show me the final lesson.
Then I have successfully learned to dance?
Thank you, Doctor. I am now prepared to dance at the wedding.
Keiko's wedding.
Is that important?
Why?
Sorry, Doctor.
I cannot reproduce your performance if I cannot see your feet.
Lead where, Doctor?
And how is that accomplished?
This is a very complex set of variables to coordinate, Doctor.
I will. Thank you, Doctor.
Computer, create dance partner. Female. Begin music.
DATA : Commander
Commander.
Sir, we have reached the designated coordinates.
Captain, I am detecting a ship in the Neutral Zone. Configuration,
Engaging computer override.
Captain, there is no prior record of this type of accident occurringaboard a starship. Backup systems and safeguards are designed to prevent justsuch an occurrence.
Aye, sir.
DATA : Captain Picard was the person who first interested me in the worksof Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I have subsequently become a great admirer of thefictional detective Sherlock Holmes and his ability to solve mysteries bycareful examination of the available evidence.
DATA : I have found Holmes' methodology of deductive reasoning to be quiteuseful. One of his adages is that once you have eliminated the impossible,whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
That is not my purpose. I would like to examine the remains of Ambassador
Have you compared the genetic code with the Ambassador's last recordedtransporter ID traces?
I could be chasing an untamed ornithoid without a cause.
Can you postulate an explanation for the discrepancy?
A supposition not supported by the transporter records.
The only abnormality found during my investigation was a temporaryincrease in the matter to energy signal ratio. Due to the circumstances, Idecided to investigate the possibility that a second transporter signal hadcaused the fluctuation. Although this was highly improbable, it was the onlyremaining theory.
From the Devoras.
While simultaneously, a small amount of genetically similar material wasleft in the Ambassador's place.
Yes, sir.
DATA : The safest and most logical decision in this situation is to contact
The Devoras is dropping out of warp, sir. Their weapon systems arepowering up.
Aye, sir.
DATA : In the game of poker, there is a moment when a player must decide ifan opponent is being deceptive or actually holds a winning hand. This decisionis based not only on the odds, but also on an appraisal of the man. Is hebluffing or does he have the cards?
Keiko, I need your help. I have offended you and need to find a way torectify my mistake. I am not sure what to do.
I should not have interfered. It would be best if I apologised.
But
I am not nervous. I am confused.
DATA : There are still many human emotions I do not fully comprehend.
I was looking for Doctor Crusher.
The Juarez child?
Very well. I have the Bridge.
DATA : If being human is not simply a matter of being born flesh and blood,if it is instead a way of thinking, acting and feeling, then I am hopeful thatone day I will discover my own humanity.
Begin night watch.
DATA : Until then Commander Maddox, I will continue learning, changing,growing, and trying to become more than what I am.
Captain, we are nearing the periphery of Sector twenty one five oh three.
Delta evasion plan initiated.
Direct hit, sir. Moderate damage to their aft shield generators.
Multiple hits, sir. Power failure in forward shields.
Accessing. Chief O'Brien served under his command aboard the Rutledge,sir.
Captain, the Phoenix in Sector twenty one five oh five.
It appears it be a Cardassian supply ship.
Sir, the Cardassian warship is moving on the Phoenix.
The warship is three hundred thousand kilometres from the Phoenix. It isopening fire. The Phoenix has taken a direct hit. The Phoenix is beginningevasive manoeuvres. It has positioned itself outside the weapons range of theopposing ship. The Phoenix has powered up both phasers and photon torpedoes.
Sir, the Phoenix is firing on the
At our present speed of warp four, sixteen hours, forty four minutes.
DATA : Bridge to Captain.
DATA : We have located the Phoenix, sir. We will intercept it in twenty twominutes.
At our present speed, three hours, twenty minutes, sir.
Captain, the Phoenix has changed course.
Sir, the Phoenix is heading directly for a Cardassian vessel point onetwo light years from our location.
Captain, the Phoenix has accelerated to warp nine. We will not be able toreach him before he intercepts the Cardassian ship.
Sir, the Phoenix has dropped out of warp. They have reached the
Negative, sir. Their phaser banks are not armed.
Our sensors are unable to determine status of the Cardassian defensivesystems. Their ship is running with a high powered subspace field.
Captain, the Phoenix is transferring power to its shields.
I don't.
I don't know.
Because a little thing affects them. A slight disorder of the stomachmakes them cheats. You may be an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, acrumb of cheese, a fragment of an underdone potato. Why, there's more of gravythan of grave about you, whatever you are. Humbug, I tell you. Humbug.
Your courtesy is appreciated, sir. But I am aware that I do noteffectively convey the fear called for in this scene.
Sir, that is not an appropriate basis for an effective performance. Notby the standards set by my mentors.
Yes, sir. I have studied the philosophies of virtually every known actingmaster. I find myself attracted to Stanislavsky, Adler, Garnav. Proponents ofan acting technique known as the Method.
Perhaps because the technique requires an actor to seek his own emotionalawareness to understand the character he plays.
Sir, I have modified the Method for my own uses. Since I have noemotional awareness to create a performance, I am attempting to use performanceto create emotional awareness. I believe if I can learn to duplicate the fearof Ebenezer Scrooge, I will be one step closer to truly understanding humanity.
She is a cornerstone of Ventaxian theology. It seems that Ardra came to
We have scanned the tectonic stress patterns of your planet's crust.
Much better. a fine example for the others. Who would you be?
So you do purport to be the mythic figure Ardra?
I have, sir.
The contract agrees to deliver the people of Ventax Two into the personalservitude of Ardra after one thousand years of peace. I have compared the termsto the body of laws which govern the planet. The language of the agreement iscorrect in every detail, sir.
I am an android.
I'm afraid the contract could be interpreted in that way, sir.
You wished to see me, sir?
Barnum, sir. PT.
Sir, do you believe Ardra is, to use the vernacular, a con artist?
Sir, I must point out that the Ventaxians did have one thousand years ofpeace and tranquility as promised by Ardra.
Indeed, sir. In the story, the spirits used fear to motivate Scrooge toreform his character.
Sir, the language of the contract seems carefully chosen to avoid anyloopholes.
Aye, sir,
Sir, I believe I have found an obscure precedent in Ventaxian law whichmay be of interest.
The case involves a contract dispute over services rendered by a Klingoncraftsman on the construction of a Ventaxian home. Because the dispute involvedan alien culture, the parties decided that arbitration rather than the courts,should resolve the issue. Both sides agreed to choose an arbiter. It is theonly known case involving an alien claimant.
Shuttlecraft One to Enterprise. Prepare for docking sequence
I cannot locate the Enterprise anywhere within one light year of theplanet, sir.
Ardra, before he responds, may I have a word in private with Captain
Sir, I request you reject me as arbitrator.
Ardra is right. If I am chosen, I will perform my duties without bias orsentiment. I cannot guarantee I will deliver a verdict in your favour.
Sir, I will have to follow the rules of conduct for a Ventaxian jurist.
Captain Picard, my interpretation of Ventaxian law suggests under thesecircumstances, this is acceptable. Your objection is overruled.
Sir, I have ruled. Please sit down. You may proceed.
I find no cause to invalidate the contract at this time. The arbitrationwill continue.
It is highly irregular to question the opposing advocate, but I see noreason to deny it. Proceed.
Sustained. The advocate will refrain from expressing personal affectionsfor her opponent.
You are out of order.
The advocate will refrain from making her opponent disappear.
Any more disruptions and I will rule you in contempt of court. Is thatunderstood?
Sustained. I will draw my own conclusions, if you do not mind. Sir.
Rebuttal?
Captain Picard, do you have any further evidence to present before Irender judgment?
Geordi. One hour recess is granted.
I think he deserves some leeway. Overruled. But that will be quiteenough, Captain.
Your leeway has run out, Captain.
With the advocate's withdrawal, the contract is hereby dissolved. Thisarbitration is adjourned.
Congratulations, sir.
DATA : Captain, Lieutenant Commander Data here. Please excuse the unusualinterruption, but under the circumstances I thought that patchingcommunications through the holodeck programme would be less obtrusive.
Long range sensors detect a T-tauri type star within a pocket of the
No, sir. However, the star's single planet falls within the M-classrange. It is capable of supporting life.
DATA : Highly, sir.
DATA : Aye, sir.
Sensors indicate an energy fluctuation directly in our path. Sourceunknown.
Very likely. Small and extremely unstable wormholes have been mapped nearthirty nine T-tauri systems in the last one hundred years alone, sir.
Captain!
Captain?
Careful, Captain. The stun effect from the wormhole was relativelysevere.
Approximately thirty seconds. I have scanned the entire ship and detectedno life-threatening injuries among the crew.
No, sir. My positronic system is immune to the effect. This is the thirdunstable wormhole I have passed through during my time with Starfleet. Thefirst was aboard the USS Trieste
Sir, I should re-align the ship's clock with Starbase four ten's subspacesignal to adjust for the time distortion.
Yes, Captain.
That was never actually a possibility. The wormhole's small size andrelatively short period would make this a local phenomenon.
The unpredictability of the wormhole would make an investigation ahazardous one. A probe launched from our current position would be moreadvisable.
Coming in now, sir. The probe is within visual range of the planet.
Sensors indicate a hydrogen-helium composition with a frozen helium core.
It is possible the sensors were affected by interference from thewormhole, Commander. It is clearly not a class M planet.
Aye, sir.
It is conceivable that the sensors picked up the afterimage of an actualplanet on the other side of the wormhole. We could survey the nearby stars forsuch a planet. It would require approximately six days, sir.
Captain, I have a hypothesis. The twenty-second century physicist Pell
True. Nevertheless, it is possible that the phenomenon could occur inmatter at much higher levels of organisation, given the proper conditions.
As you wish, Captain.
The long range and infra-red sensors apparently suffered ill effects as aresult of the wormhole. We are presently checking neutrino and heavy particledetectors.
It is a mystery, Captain.
I am unable to answer that question, sir.
As you wish, Captain.
I know the way, sir.
Have you forgotten, Geordi, that my sensory inputs are not programmed toexperience pain?
I am perfectly comfortable.
I have noticed, however, that you appear a bit uncomfortable yourself.
I cannot tell you anything beyond what I have already stated.
Yes, sir. It is the planet our probe detected in the T-tauri system.
I cannot verify that hypothesis.
No, sir.
Is she all right, sir?
No, sir, I cannot.
It is not by choice.
I cannot say.
Which would you place first, the welfare of a single individual or thatof the entire crew?
I am not saying that at all. I merely state a possible alternativeexplanation.
I cannot answer that.
I am apparently guilty of falsifying the Enterprise's records, ofinterfering with an investigation, of disobeying a direct order from mycommanding officer. Your duty seems clear, sir.
I realise that, sir.
Yes, sir. I do.
Counsellor Troi, what is it?
You have returned.
I was unable to prevent it.
The Enterprise is not a threat to you. Give me more time. Our destructionwould only
One moment, if you would.
Do nothing. It may yet be possible to salvage the situation.
Reporting as ordered, Captain.
We must leave immediately, sir.
Any further delay would put us all at grave risk.
I cannot say.
My silence is not by choice, sir.
Geordi's examination was exemplary.
I cannot answer that. We must leave, sir.
You did, sir.
No. We must vary shield shape and strength as rapidly as possible.
The energy field will eventually penetrate our shields. There is no wayto counter the Paxans' technology. We can delay their takeover but we cannotprevent it.
You will only harm Counsellor Troi's body.
They are xenophobes, sir. Isolationists. The Paxans terraformed aprotoplanet in this system in order to better conceal their whereabouts. Theapparent wormhole we experienced is actually a trap designed to keep outinvaders. The energy field stuns everyone on board the invading vessel andplaces them in a state of biochemical stasis.
The Paxans then take the ship out of their territory.
Precisely.
My positronic brain is a technology unknown to the Paxans.
When I realised the crew was incapacitated, I initiated emergencyprocedures
Computer, engage emergency plan zed zed alpha.
Computer, begin random fluctuation of shield frequency and modulation.
DATA : With the Enterprise temporarily protected, I revived the crew.
Computer, release compound ADTH into the airflow system, five parts permillion.
The energy field is attempting to match shield frequencies, sir.
Negative, sir. The field is also acting as a tractor beam.
DATA : The Paxans can manipulate energy structures on many levels. Theytook control of Counsellor Troi's body to communicate with us.
As a Starfleet officer, I am required to follow all of your orders,
Completely, sir.
We proceeded to erase all evidence of our encounter with the Paxans. Ireset the computer's chronometer and the crew was again stunned intounconsciousness, their short-term memories erased. When they were revived a daylater, the computer adjustments made it appear that only thirty seconds hadpassed.
The effect from the wormhole was rather intense.
Everyone but myself was rendered unconscious. My positronic system isimmune to the effect.
Thirty seconds, Sir.
Yes, sir. The wormhole appears to have been a local phenomenon.
Sir, it is likely the anomalous readings were the result of thewormhole's effect. It was extremely unstable. I would recommend againstreturning. It might put the Enterprise at further risk.
That would certainly be sufficient, sir.
Chancellor. Minister.
In a manner of speaking. The term artificial lifeform would be moreaccurate.
No, Minister. He has not returned to our designated transportcoordinates. We have continued to scan the capital city without success.
Commander, I am picking up some unusual readings from the Alpha Omicronsystem. At this range, all I am able to discern is that it is an asymmetricalfield of intense energy.
Unknown, sir. The Alpha Omicron system is yet to be charted. I recommendwe take this opportunity for further research.
The anomaly is orbiting the seventh planet, sir. It is a mass of plasmaenergy contained within discrete boundaries by an outer covering of silicates,actinides, and carbonaceous chondrites.
None, sir. This has never been seen before.
Sensors are having difficulty penetrating the interior. However, theradiated output suggests a coherent system of energy storage and utilisation.
It is a possibility. However, the sensor data gathered thus far suggestsa naturally occurring phenomenon with biological properties.
Yes, Captain.
Level-five probe sequence ready for launch, Commander. On your mark.
Aye, sir. PICARD: What would it be like, Counsellor? No ship, no bulkyspacesuit. Just to live between the stars, have the entire galaxy as a home.
Change in readings, sir. The life form has increased its energy output byfifty percent.
We are caught in an energy damping field, sir.
No change in position.
Radiation levels dropping back to normal, Captain. Energy patterns arebreaking down, sir. The radiation signature is no longer stable.
Energy output is negligible, sir. Radiation patterns no longer coherent.
Captain, sensors are picking up a new energy reading from the life form.
There is a new concentration of ionising radiation growing in the centreof its body.
This new concentration of energy was detected only after the surroundingmaterial became inert.
The radiation signature is similar to the original pattern, but withsignificant differences.
I believe it is separate and self-contained within the body of the deadlife form.
Yes, sir. It appears to be a smaller, less developed version of theoriginal creature.
The first incision is complete.
The life form's patterns are stable, Captain. It seems able to withstandthe solar radiation.
A change in energy readings, sir. I am reading an internal buildup ofgamma particles in
The creature is now in direct contact with the hull, sir.
Sir, the life form is draining energy directly from the fusion reactors.
I can attempt to extrapolate from the heading it was on when weencountered it, sir.
Sir, is the appellation Junior to be the life form's official name?
Captain, I have completed the analysis of the parent's course throughthis system.
The asteroids contain large quantities of meklonite, which is interferingwith our scanners. I am also detecting traces of kephneum, a compound found inthe outer shell of the parent being. It is likely the asteroids providesustenance for this lifeform, sir.
Captain, the offspring is emitting high frequency radio transmissions.
I am detecting other radio transmissions, Captain.
At their current speed, sir, the entities will intercept us in tenminutes, thirty one seconds.
Negative. I detect no reduction in the life form's rate of energyconsumption.
The lifeform is emitting its high frequency transmission. Energyconsumption is rising, sir.
Auxiliary generators losing power, Captain.
The entity has disengaged, sir. Power levels are returning to normal,
The ship is intact, sir, with no indication of structural damage.
All propulsion systems are shut down. The ship is drifting, sir.
Inconclusive.
There is no malfunction in any of the main systems, sir.
Matter valves are open and operating. Magnetic containment of antimatterpods is constant.
Injectors open. There is no engine activity at all, sir.
Is there a problem, Ensign?
Ready now, Captain.
Captain, thrusters are losing power.
No, sir. Apparently we do not.
After analysing the sensor logs of the Brittain and the Enterprise, aswell as the data from the last series of probes, I conclude that we have becometrapped in a massive rupture in space, into which energy is absorbed.
A rare anomaly named after Bela Tyken, the Melthusian captain who firstencountered it.
The ship's energy is being drained into the fissure before we can utiliseit.
When Tyken was trapped in the rift, his analysis determined that amassive energy release might overload and dislocate the anomaly. Fortunately,his cargo included anicium and yurium, which he used to detonate the explosion.
No, sir. We no longer have the power to reproduce complex elements in thereplicator. We must find a way to generate a violent energy release withoutusing conventional means.
No. There were no reports of unusual conduct among the crew.
There were no records of sleep disturbances of any kind, Counsellor.
Commander La Forge and I have come up with a potential solution to ourpredicament. Perhaps the modifications used to increase firepower against the
Yes, sir. I believe that within six hours we could generate aconcentrated burst of energy which might disrupt the Tyken's rift.
Yes, sir?
Yes, sir.
I will do my best, sir.
The Brittain, Doctor.
I believe the Doctor means is that humans enter what is known as REMsleep. Rapid eye movement. It is the level of brain wave activity at which onedreams.
The main deflector dish.
Data to Bridge. Mister Worf, activate the deflector.
DATA : Captain, it appears the energy output
Has been absorbed into the rift.
No, sir. If we draw
DATA : More power, we risk losing life support systems.
It is possible that this telepathic communication is creatinginterference in the REM sleep of other species. That would explain why the restof our crew is not dreaming.
Your hypothesis is certainly plausible. There may be another ship on theother side of the fissure, where we cannot detect it.
There is no technology to block telepathic transmissions, Doctor.
Perhaps we can accomplish more than that. If there is another ship, andwe can reach them, we might be able to coordinate our efforts to freeourselves.
Working together with the aliens, we must discover a means by which we anproduce an explosion more intense than either one of us could achieve alone.
These are the elements we have available. Some of them could be used inthe creation of an explosive reaction. If we could communicate this inventoryto the other ship, perhaps they would be able to
I am uncertain if a simple transmission will be adequate.
Yes, Counsellor. One electron circles one proton. This is a hydrogenatom.
Perhaps the aliens are thinking as we are, to collaborate in producing anexplosion. If hydrogen is combined with another element, calendenium forexample, it is extremely volatile. But would the message mean they havehydrogen or they want hydrogen?
Then the proper course of action would be to release hydrogen into therift, and hope that they have a substance that will detonate it.
If you are correct, Counsellor, I believe they have already told us whatto do and are waiting for us to do it. When we are ready, the only message youshould attempt to convey is, now.
DATA : Counsellor
You will have to communicate with the other ship within two minutes ofentering REM sleep.
DATA : Unfortunately, yes.
We have only enough power to emit a hydrogen stream for that amount oftime. They must understand that they will have to detonate it immediately.
We will have to draw power from the life-support systems in order todischarge the collectors. This is Acting Captain Data. All personnel willreport to designated shelter areas
DATA : Immediately. Life support systems will continue only in emergencyshelter areas.
Thank you, Doctor. Activating Bussard collectors.
Ninety seconds remaining.
Forty five seconds remaining.
Thirty seconds remaining.
Ten seconds remaining.
The Counsellor was unsuccessful.
Engines activated, sir.
We have cleared the rift, sir. Warp engines are coming back online.
Setting a course for Starbase two twenty. Sir, as my final duty as Acting
Pleasant dreams, sir.
The shuttle's acceleration is increasing. Its trajectory is movingdirectly into the planet's atmosphere. He will reach an atmospheric interfaceat an altitude of two hundred and ten kilometres.
That is correct, Commander.
Fifty three seconds, sir.
The shuttle is approaching the outer thermosphere, Captain.
At current rate of acceleration, the shuttle will be destroyed in twentyeight seconds.
Sixteen seconds to impact.
The shuttle's entering the lower ionosphere, sir.
No life signs, Commander.
During microscopic examination of the torn uniform, I discovered thesealien skin cells.
Undetermined.
Fortunately, we have more evidence. We were able to determine that thesefootprints found near the shuttle were not made by any known Tarchannen lifeform.
The planet is subject to frequent sandstorms. Footprints might have beenobliterated prior to your arrival. Doctor Crusher and I will begin to searchthe medical database in an attempt to match these with some known life form.
I am aware of that, Doctor. However, I can see no other reasonable courseof investigation available to us. And we may not have much time.
I am an android. It is not possible
Starfleet personnel have vanished. Others may be at risk. We must do thebest we can to find out why. However, I am strongly motivated to solve thismystery.
Geordi. May I inquire how your investigation is proceeding?
Have you attempted an audio analysis?
There is no need for an apology. Perhaps if you indulged in a brief restperiod, you would be able to approach this problem with a fresh point of view.
May I can assist you?
Negative, Commander. Nothing in our survey suggests the source of aparasitic infection.
I am showing no transporter activity.
Captain, the security lockout on Transporter room six has been broken.
I cannot, sir. The transporter cycle has already begun.
Captain, if we can get close enough to Geordi, we can read his absorptionspectrum with an ultraviolet light.
Yes, sir.
I must replace the emitter module and reconnect the power supply. It willtake approximately two minutes to complete the modification, sir.
I have completed modifications, Commander.
Lieutenant Barclay's performance was adequate, but clearly not rooted in
The fusion reactors that power the array are extremely unstable. There isa high risk of overload.
They do not seem to be functioning at all, sir.
No, sir. Power emissions do not match any known radiation patterns. Wehave not encountered this technology before, sir.
Captain, sensors are reading no particulate emissions or subspace fielddistortions.
Method of propulsion is unknown, sir.
Captain, an energy field is forming around the device. Intensity is threepoint two terawatts and increasing.
The probe's field intensity is continuing to build, sir. We are indanger.
Captain, the probe's energy output is overloading our shields. Failureanticipated in forty seven seconds.
A standard isolation procedure would be advisable.
An interesting suggestion, Lieutenant. However, that approach wouldrequire much more time than our original plan. At least seven weeks.
Reactor Nine will reach critical in ten minutes, forty three seconds. Thesubsequent explosion will create a chain reaction along the entire length ofthe Array, sir.
Now, create a standard alphanumeric console positioned for lefthand. Now an iconic display console positioned for right hand. Tie bothconsoles into the Enterprise main computer core, utilising neural-scaninterface.
Argus reactor nine twenty eight seconds to critical.
Twelve seconds to critical.
Captain, the Argus reactors are shutting down. We are no longer indanger, sir.
Unknown, sir.
Lieutenant Barclay has not yet extended himself into the Engineeringsubsystems. It may be possible to establish an ODN bypass directly to the
This disturbance is the result of a highly charged graviton fieldemanating from our warp nacelles. It is creating a severe bias in the subspacecontinuum.
I have been monitoring Geordi's progress. It will be operational inseventeen minutes.
Captain, we have not regained control of the propulsion systems. The ODNbypass to the Bridge has been blocked.
We are experiencing a quantum-model oscillation delay, doubling inintensity every twelve point three seconds. Bio-cellular disruption isimminent.
Captain, all systems are back under helm control. The computer hasreturned to normal functioning.
How do you do.
On the contrary, Lieutenant Worf. Your clothing identifies you with thecharacter of Will Scarlett, just as Geordi's mandolin identifies him as Alan A-
Perhaps you are referring to the rescue of Maid Marian from Nottingham
The arrow impacted just above my sixth intercostal support, penetratingmy secondary subprocessor. Fortunately, none of my biofunctions seem affected.
At the rate the levels are decreasing, we will gain entry in forty ninehours, Captain.
Slow motion study of the explosion suggests that the articulation framecollapsed.
Other evidence lends credence to that theory, Captain. A review of thesensor logs indicates that every systems reading was well within normalparameters until fifty two milliseconds before the explosion.
We have made micro-tomographic analyses of the dilithium chamber, thehatch mounting, the blast pattern from the explosion.
Those fractures suggest nothing more than simple neutron fatigue. I wouldspeculate that when the engine was last inspected at McKinley station, thehatch casing was replaced with one which had an undetectable defect. I believe,sir, that the conclusion to our investigation must be that the explosion wasnot intentional.
Captain, warp engines are back online. We are ready to commence restartsequences. Sir?
The modifications that you have made to the torpedo's guidance systemsare remarkable, Doctor.
It is true that the intellectual efficiency of high order beings doesdiminish proportionately with the deprivation of nutritious fuel or
Tracking torpedoes. Entry programme confirmed.
Pressure wave harmonics dispersing. Temperature in target zone increasingto eighty one million degrees, sir.
Radiation and pressure levels still stable.
Turbulence patterns are within predicted parameters.
Temperature is rising in the core again, Captain. Two hundred and thirtymillion degrees Kelvin.
Rate exceeding critical level. Core density is becoming unstable.
The people of Kaelon Two are isolationists, almost to the point of beingxenophobes. Regrettably, we know very little about their customs.
There was a evidence of a delayed surface shock.
Perhaps, Doctor, but there is no known method for controlling a neutronmigration.
They refuse to accept further reports from you, Doctor.
Ambassador Odan, Doctor Crusher. I was just on my way to speak to you.
I have completed my study on the atmospheric variations which haveoccurred on the moon since the new technology was implemented.
I could go over it with you now. It would not require more than twohours.
Then it is perfect timing, Doctor. What better occasion to integrate myresults into your study?
At least an hour, but I do not believe much time can be saved byexhibiting such haste now.
I hope Doctor Crusher was able to help you with your headache.
My design models suggest that Beta will eventually experience risingtemperatures, erratic tide surges and in general the beginnings of globalwarming.
Initiate shuttle preflight sequence.
Shuttle has cleared the bay door.
Would it be possible for me to serve as a temporary carrier?
Sir, it could take more than two hours to reach the vessel.
Welcome back, Geordi.
How was the seminar?
It is fortunate we were able to coordinate your return on the Teldariancruiser.
I am sorry to hear you did not enjoy yourself.
Joking? Ah. Forced to endure Risa. Your actual intent was to emphasisethat you did enjoy yourself. Yes, I see how that could be considered quiteamusing.
Commander Riker.
Our sensors have detected a brief energy fluctuation in the E-band.
Unknown, sir. E-band emissions are difficult to localise.
Yes, sir. However, there are no protostars in this sector.
Yes, sir.
Energy flow is within normal parameters, from the pre-fire chamber to theemission aperture.
Energy cell usage remains constant at one point oh five megajoules persecond. Curious. The efficiency reading on the discharge crystal is well above
Our most efficient discharge crystal typically fires with eighty sixpoint five percent efficiency.
Pulse frequency out of pre-fire chamber reads steady.
That might suggest that the weapon has been charged with a forced pulse,well into the terahertz range.
Three hundred twenty seven, to our knowledge. We can probably achieve anexact match with a random computer search. It will take approximately threehours.
Yes, sir. However, the difference in intensity indicates that this onedid not originate from the same location as the first.
That is a reasonable assumption.
Not to my knowledge, sir.
We can reconfigure the primary sensor array. If we narrow their focus toscan for E-band emissions, we might be able to calculate a directional vector.
Sensors confirm an unauthorised transporter beam at eleven twenty threehours.
The primary plasma system does not indicate a power drain from any of thetransporters.
Tracking power from secondary systems. No surges to any of thetransporters indicated.
No abnormal surges indicated.
Cargo bay four.
Perhaps the perpetrator reprogrammed the memory chips to erase anyrecord.
I was on the Bridge at my station.
The erasures were complete. However, an analysis of the subatomicstructure revealed an almost undetectable residual pattern. In time, we may beable to reconstruct the perpetrator's authorisation code.
Yes, Commander.
Acknowledged, I will be there shortly.
We have been picking up a curious intermittent blip. Commander Riker hasspeculated that it may be a Romulan transmission. I am attempting to track itssource.
The first and third E-band blips were clearly generated on board theship. The second came from the planet surface.
Unknown, sir.
One could speculate that the E-band is being used for some form of covertcommunication.
Yes, sir. Computer, run an analysis of all known Romulan transmissionformats, all bands, Identify any commonalities with displayed waveform.
Does this waveform match that of any known communication format?
Broaden search pattern beyond communications. Does the waveform displayedconform to any natural phenomena, cryptographic formats or lifeform EMemissions?
As in a human brainwave pattern?
What kind of receiver would be capable of processing these signals?
Computer, link with the shuttle's onboard system. Access the isolinearstorage assembly. Scan all chips which contain mission logs. Note anydiscrepancies.
Perform a level 5 diagnostic on the shuttle's power and navigationalsystems.
Computer, scan the shuttle's structural integrity.
Probable cause of these variations?
Computer, I am reading anomalous variations in the molecular structure ofthese memory chips. Please confirm.
Probable cause?
Compare these variations with established Romulan replication patterns.
DATA : Data to La Forge.
Report, please. Geordi.
DATA : Please respond.
Computer, current location of Commander La Forge?
Data to Lieutenant Worf.
DATA : Priority One.
Take Commander La Forge into custody immediately.
That is an order.
I believe I can help, Captain. I have been able to determine that
No, sir, you did not. I do not believe the Commander is acting of his ownaccord. He has been receiving E-band signals through his visor. Signals whichare carrying direct commands to his brain. I have surmised that Commander La
No, sir. That is not possible. The signals had to be transmitted withinclose proximity to the visor.
Yes, sir, I am.
I have narrowed the list of possibilities to two people. The only twopeople who were with Commander La Forge all three times a transmission wasrecorded. Captain Picard and Ambassador Kell. One of them may be concealing an
The initial dispersal pattern should not be more than seven kilometres indiameter. Jenna?
That should suffice. Is there something occupying your thoughts, Jenna?
What was your response?
As you requested, I will now remind you of the reasons you decided to endyour relationship with Jeff.
You objected to the fact that he seemed unwilling to set aside sufficienttime for you. You said he was unresponsive, that he never did the littlethings. You disliked the sound he made when he ate his soup.
This is the third time I have refreshed your memory. Do you wish torescind our agreement?
Throughout history, many lovers have suffered the same difficulty. Anne
Six weeks ago, when you and Jeff dissolved your relationship, I saw anexcellent opportunity to study that aspect of human intimacy. As your friend,it is my responsibility to be supportive in times of need.
Data to Bridge. We are ready
DATA : To begin the first illumination test.
Is anything wrong?
I do not believe that is so. Your rhythmic control has improved markedly.
The contrapuntal nature of the composition is most demanding. We willgive more attention to the rhythmic patterns at our next rehearsal. However, Iam quite certain the audience was oblivious to such nuances. They seemed toenjoy the performance thoroughly.
I believe I observed that you seem to have an aversion to orderliness.
And a very good job of it I did of it, too.
I am nearly finished compiling readings from our most recent illuminatoryburst. Dark matter density is nearly one order of magnitude higher than insimilar nebulae. Life forms here may have developed in ways never beforeobserved.
Several, sir. The nearest is approximately three light hours from ourpresent position.
Children often do not develop discerning palettes until well beyondadolescence.
The unidirectional nature of the time continuum makes that an unlikelypossibility.
That is not true. I have no human feelings.
Permission granted.
Eighty seven percent Saurian Brandy. Targ milk and Danisian mead comprisethe rest. There is an unusually high concentration of fructose compounds andmonosaccharides.
Lieutenant D'Sora just gave me what could be considered a very passionatekiss in the torpedo bay.
I was intrigued. Jenna seemed to be displaying genuine affection for me.
I find her to be a competent officer. Highly motivated, though somewhatlacking in her understanding of the theory underlying the dilithium matrixapplication.
I look forward to the time we spend together.
I do not know. I have no experience in such matters. I require advice.
But I am not capable of love.
Thank you.
The door sensor is programmed to recognise only humanoid forms for entryand egress. Spot could not have triggered the mechanism.
It does not appear so. Computer, has anyone been in my quarters in thelast twelve hours other than Commander La Forge and myself?
Geordi, may I ask your advice in a personal matter?
Should I pursue a relationship with Lieutenant D'Sora?
They have discontinued their association. She has made the first move ininitiating a relationship with me. What should I do?
Then you do not believe I should pursue this any further.
I have studied much human literature on the subject of love and romanticliaisons. There are many role models for me to emulate.
My programming may be inadequate to the task.
I understand.
Jenna has clearly demonstrated how she feels about me, but I am notcapable of returning those feelings.
I cannot be hurt. But she can.
How far, sir?
Thank you, Commander.
Captain, I am seeking advice in how
A variety of crystilia. Their fragrance is an evolutionary response tothe acrid nature of the atmosphere on Telemarius Four.
It seems your quarters have reverted to their earlier state of disorder.
Commander Riker suggested this particular flower. He said it had workedfor him in the past.
No. In actuality, less than one percent of the Enterprise crew wasinvolved. It was necessary to balance theory with experiential referents. Bothare required for a programme of this nature. Computer, decrease illuminationlevel by one third standard lux.
Yes. One which I have just created for romantic relationships.
You are much more than that, Jenna. I have written a subroutinespecifically for you. A programme within the programme. I have devoted aconsiderable share of my internal resources to its development.
We will reach the class M planet in approximately eleven hours, sir.
Enter.
You are correct. I did not anticipate your arrival until nineteen hundredhours.
You have often expressed dissatisfaction with the spartan nature of myquarters. Is this an attempt at embellishment?
Spot?
Its line is both fluid and formal, yet retains an unpremeditated quality.
As you wish.
Yes?
I should not have resumed my painting?
Despite your suggestion that I continue?
I have much to learn.
Perhaps if I looked for a suitable place to display it?
The ambient light in this location accentuates its contours. However, agift should not necessarily be placed according to aesthetic criteria. A morecentral location will carry added meaning.
The lateral EM scanners register radiation levels indicative of a class-
Captain. Standard air pressure has been reestablished in the Observationlounge.
I detect no unusual readings along standard parameters. Curious. Thetransparent aluminum alloy of this window is exhibiting a pattern of transientelectrical currents.
I have none. The rate is characteristic of a subspace distortion, but Iam picking up no evidence of a subspace field.
Honey? I'm home.
Hi.
Negative. We found no malfunctions.
May I get you a drink, dear?
Excellent choice. I'll join you. Computer, two Calaman sherries. Wouldyou care for some dinner as well?
Whatever you wish, dear. There we are.
Darling, you remain as aesthetically pleasing as the first day we met. Ibelieve I am the most fortunate sentient in this sector of the galaxy. Now, yourelax. Put your feet up and I will take care of everything.
I could organise your closets for you. I have found that by groupingapparel first by function, and then by colour from light to dark, one can moreeasily find one's desired choice.
But I am happy to do it.
What do you wish me to do, dear? Am I not paying enough attention to you?
Perhaps I am not giving you enough compliments? Your hair is lookingparticularly silky tonight.
Am I not behaving as a solicitous mate?
Tending to your every need?
My most recent self-diagnostic revealed no malfunctions. Perhaps there issomething wrong with you.
You don't tell me how to behave. You're not my mother.
You are not my mother. That is the appropriate response for yourstatement that I am behaving foolishly.
You do not wish to continue our lovers quarrel?
In my study of interpersonal dynamics, I have found that conflictfollowed by emotional release often strengthens the connection between twopeople.
With regard to romantic relationships, there is no real me. I am drawingupon various cultural and literary sources to help define my role.
In that particular moment, I was reconfiguring the warp field parameters,analysing the collected works of Charles Dickens, calculating the maximumpressure I could safely apply to your lips, considering a new food supplementfor Spot.
We can only state that a subspace effect seems to exist within thisnebula. After I have made further analysis, I may be able to adjust the ship'ssensors to locate and identify the anomaly.
Captain.
During the last occurrence, I was able to confirm one of my hypotheses.
Or when one of them hits us. My readings suggest that the deformationsthemselves are in motion.
Yes, sir, but only at extremely close range. Even at minimal speed, itwould be almost impossible to manoeuvre the Enterprise quickly enough to avoidthem.
DATA : Ship's computer is accepting navigational inputs from the shuttle.
Main coupling is matching navigational inputs, Captain.
Transceiver signal is down forty two percent. Navigational inputs are notregistering.
DATA : Four point seven million kilometres, sir.
DATA : Possibly. If you augment the thruster sequencing so that theinertial dampening fields
Commander, the shuttle is out of control.
Sir, the shuttle's inertial dampeners have failed. It is breaking up.
Commander, we are nearing the perimeter. One million kilometres away.
Enter.
Hi.
Thank you. It is much less Spartan, is it not?
Jenna, you are repeating yourself. I have often found this to beindicative of mental distraction. Is that a correct assumption in thisinstance?
Then perhaps we should begin our meal. Among humans, a low serum glucoselevel is often responsible for
What is the subject?
Yes?
Are you currently experiencing this phenomenon?
There does appear to be a recurring motif.
It is not?
That is a valid projection. It is apparent that my reach has exceeded mygrasp in this particular area. I am perhaps not nearly so human as I aspire tobecome. If you are ready to eat, I will bring our meal.
As you wish. Jenna. Are we no longer a couple?
Then I will delete the appropriate programme.
Hello, Spot.
Aye, sir.
Do you also require the original logs recorded during the attack,
We can provide you with our analysis of the communications between the
A second ship has joined the attack on the Bortas.
The Bortas has lost her port shields, sir. It is unlikely they willwithstand another hit at that quarter. Their primary life support has failed,sir.
Aye, sir.
May I ask a question, sir, of a personal nature?
I am confused. Why have I not been assigned to command a ship in thefleet, sir?
You have commented on the lack of senior officers available for thismission. I believe my twenty six years of Starfleet service qualifies me forsuch a post. However, if you do not believe the time has arrived for an androidto command a starship, perhaps I should address myself to improving my
Thank you, sir.
I am Lieutenant Commander Data.
By order of Starfleet, I hereby take command of this vessel. Please notethe time and date in the ship's log.
May I ask why?
Your service record to date suggests that you would perform that functionadequately.
Why?
I understand your concerns. Request denied.
All stop. Notify the flagship that we have assumed station.
Why are the backups not functioning?
You have taken the phaser and torpedo control units offline.
Mister Hobson, it is inappropriate for you to determine a course ofaction without consulting the commanding officer.
You will take the phasers and torpedo units offline and begin repairs ofthe starboard power coupling.
DATA : Data here, sir.
DATA : Yes, sir. The Romulans have released a high energy burst. The net isno longer effective in a radius of ten million kilometres around the
Acknowledge the signal. Ensign, lay in the course and engage at warp ninepoint three.
In disrupting the detection net, the Romulans may have caused a residualtachyon signature to form around their own ships.
All stop.
The tachyon signatures will not last long. By the time the fleet isdeployed, it will be too late. Begin to reconfigure the sensors to detectionised particle traces.
I am aware of the difficulties. Please bring the phasers back online.
We will initiate radiation protocol when necessary.
Mister Hobson! You will carry out my orders or I will relieve you ofduty.
Display sensor schematic. Display sensor sweep, maximum range.
Overlay display with tachyon emissions. Highlight any tachyon signatureswhich show subspace inertial displacement. Concentrate a sensor sweep in thatarea.
Reconfigure photon torpedo warhead yields. Set for high energy burstlevel six.
Do it!
Stand by, Captain. Mister Hobson, prepare to fire.
Fire. Fire!
Make a full report to the flagship. Take the main phasers offline andbegin radiation clean up on the affected decks.
Captain, I wish to submit myself for disciplinary action. I havedisobeyed a direct order from a superior officer. Although the result of myactions proved positive, the ends cannot justify the means.
Sir.
The signal is a standard mathematical progression. It does not carry aspecific message.
Federation vessels have encountered Tamarian ships seven times over thepast one hundred years. Each meeting went without incident, however formalrelations were not established because communication was not possible.
The Children of Tama were called incomprehensible by Captain Silvestri ofthe Shiku Maru. Other accounts were comparable.
The Tamarian seems to be stating the proper names of individuals andlocations.
I am at a loss, sir.
The Tamarians have transported Captain Picard to the planet surface alongwith their own captain.
It will not be possible to transport, sir. The Tamarian ship has createda particle scattering field on the planet's ionosphere.
No, sir. The Tamarians are projecting a particle sustaining beam into theupper atmosphere. The result is a hyperionisation that virtually disrupts all
That is correct. However, they have left sensor frequencies clear.
Sensors show Captain Picard and the Tamarian in apparent good health,approximately twenty metres from each other.
Not without further study.
Sir, the Tamarians are fully capable of stopping a shuttle.
Commander, the shuttle has reached the E region of the planet'sionosphere.
The scattering layer induced by the Tamarians is concentrated in theupper D region. The shuttle will reach that area in approximately two minutes.
Unchanged, sir. They appear to be making no attempt to stop us.
Commander. I am reading a power surge in the Tamarian plasma reactor.
Commander, the shuttle has been hit.
The starboard nacelle has been rendered inoperable.
Yes, sir. The phaser pulse appears to have been carefully attenuated forjust that effect.
As I have said, with further study it may be possible
Freeze. Darmok.
The apparent emotional dynamic does seem to support that assumption. Aswith the other terms used by the Tamarian, this appears to be a proper noun.
I have encountered one thousand, seven hundred fifty four non-human racesduring my tenure with Starfleet.
Correct.
Replay at time index one four four.
Freeze. Computer, search for the term Tanagra. All databases.
The Tamarian ego structure does not seem to allow what we normally thinkof as self-identity. Their ability to abstract is highly unusual. They seem tocommunicate through narrative imagery by reference to the individuals andplaces which appear in their mytho-historical accounts.
No, sir. The situation is analogous to understanding the grammar of alanguage but none of the vocabulary.
It is necessary for us to learn the narrative from which the Tamariansdrawing their imagery. Given our current relations, that does not appearlikely.
Commander. The Tamarian's bioscan is becoming unreadable. He may be dead,sir.
Sir, sensors are tracking the entity. It is approaching Captain Picard'sposition.
Nine metres and closing. The energy output of the entity has doubled,
Scattering field is down, sir.
That may not be possible, sir. The starboard nacelle sustained a directhit. Warp engines are offline.
Commander, we cannot survive another hit.
Power has been restored, sir.
Twenty six minutes, Captain.
There are dozens of Bajoran camps on the three class-M planets. I suggestwe may want to begin on Valo Three, where an adhoc leader named Jas Holzalives. The Federation has had several dealings with him.
Sir.
Ensign, whom do you suggest we speak to?
Aye, sir.
Computer, locate Ensign Ro.
I am picking up molecular displacement traces. That suggests movementthrough this area during the last ten hours.
Data to Picard. Data to Worf.
Perhaps someone wanted to draw us into the conflict.
Aye, sir.
I am monitoring increased activity inside Cardassian space. Two ships aremoving along the border heading one four two mark zero five one.
They are moving into a course parallel to our own, Captain.
The Cardassian ships are changing course, sir. They are crossing theborder.
Subspace signal coming from Starfleet, Captain. Admiral Kennelly.
It is on a secure channel, sir. In your ready room?
I do not recognise the sound. I believe it is coming from above.
Subterranean caverns to the east, sir. Doctor.
The refractory metal in the rock formations may act as an effectivebarrier.
Commander, the refractory metals in the rock strata may also interferewith communication.
I am not entirely certain they will, sir.
It has been over an hour since we heard the Entity, sir. It may be gone.
Doctor, I ran a full spectrographic analysis, section by section. Traceelements confirm that it is the same entity which destroyed the colony at
Doctor, the cave in which we hid was made of rock which contained heavyconcentrations of kelbonite and fistrium. We surmise that the Entity was unableto penetrate that barrier.
Yes, sir.
Doctor, there is evidence of residual bitrious matter in the soil. It wasnot present before the Entity's attack.
Doctor? Doctor Marr, you have made it clear that my presence disturbsyou. However, I do not see how we can achieve our task if you continue toignore me.
Then I do not understand your lack of interest in the bitrious filament Imentioned.
As I have speculated, the presence of refractory metals
Were those caves laced with kelbonite or fistrium?
Then perhaps the combination of the two metals prevented the Entity from
I do not understand.
I cannot see what effect my being here would have had
Do you believe that I lured the Entity here?
No, Doctor. Because Lore betrayed the colonists on Omicron Theta, youbelieve that I am capable of the same behaviour. You are mistaken, Doctor. Myprogramming is distinctly different from Lore's.
I do understand, and I am attempting to explain to you it is impossible.
That is true, Doctor.
Yes, Doctor.
Were you expecting a different result this time, Doctor?
Doctor, have you ever scanned your samples for gamma radiation?
We are seeing high energy reactions that may show up in a gamma scan.
If the Entity left a residual trace of antiproton in the samples wecollected, a gamma radiation scan would reveal that.
If we try a logarithmic scale, we will have better resolution.
Yes. Doctor?
The thanks actually go to Doctor Clendenning on Omicron Theta who did thefirst experiments with gamma scans.
That is correct. But I possess much of his knowledge. He was working onnew detectors at the time of the attack on Omicron Theta.
It is true, Doctor. The contents of their logs and journals weretransferred into my memory cells. The man who created me also experimented withscanning the synaptic patterns of the colonists' temporal lobes and programmingthem into my neural nets.
To some degree. Doctor Soong hoped to provide me with an amalgam of thecolonists' memories.
Yes, sir. There are two possible destinations. The Brechtian Cluster andthe Argos system.
Yes, sir. The Brechtian Cluster has two inhabited planets.
Come in.
Not at all, Doctor.
That is very gracious of you to say, Doctor, but I have not been injuredby you.
That is true. I have experimented with producing vibrations in crystalsby means of graviton pulses.
Exactly. I will call up the results I have achieved this far for you tostudy.
I do not possess the minute to minute remembrances of each person,although the more intense recollections are contained in my memory banks.
Marr, Raymond. Called Renny. Yes. I do.
Yes.
Blame you?
There are no records of any blame against you.
There are no records of any negative thoughts about you. His personaljournals indicated that he was proud that you were such a fine scientist.
The Crystalline Entity is moving away, sir.
Warp and impulse engines are down, sir, but they can be restarted. Askeleton crew could take the ship to a starbase.
Aye, sir.
Deck seventeen. Doctor, you have seemed preoccupied since we surveyed the
Not at all.
We should programme the bridge science station to vary the emissions wedirect toward the Entity.
That is correct, Doctor.
I have some vivid memories of sporting events. He played parrises squareswith a group of his schoolmates.
Yes, he was pleased to have won a championship emblem.
Yes, Doctor. Your son's most intense memories revolve around a youngwoman named Jenina.
He enjoyed her kindness, her gentleness, her physical attributes.
Yes, Doctor.
I would be happy to be of help.
That is true, Doctor, but what would you want me to say?
Many of his journal entries took the form of letters to friends andfamily. I could access one of those.
I took my last exam today I think I did all right oneverything except cellular biology. I know you think it's important, Mom, but Idon't see how I'm ever going to use this stuff. In a couple of weeks, a bunchof us are going on an archaeological dig in the mountains. The Wallaces said itwould be all right as long as we had adult supervision, so don't worry. They'relooking out for me. They're really great people and I like them a lot, butthey're kind of serious. They don't have your sense of humour, Mom. Mom, I missyou.
Yes, Commander, but sensors have not yet locked onto its exactwhereabouts.
Commencing graviton emissions now.
Emissions now at ten pulses per second.
Doctor Marr, do you wish to change the frequency? Doctor Marr?
Changing to twenty pulses per second.
Emissions now at thirty pulses per second.
Captain, there is a pattern emerging from the signals.
I believe so, sir, but it will take some time to decipher the patterns.
Doctor? Doctor Marr? Doctor Marr, we must return to the intermittentsignal.
Sir, the Entity is beginning to resonate. Vibrations are increasing.
I cannot stop our graviton signal, Captain. Doctor Marr has isolated theaccess code.
The amplitude is still rising, Captain. Resonance is approachingcritical.
Perhaps I should escort the Doctor, sir.
Please come with me, Doctor.
I will stay with you, Doctor.
There has been no predetermined limit placed on my existence, Doctor.
In what way, Doctor?
I do not find such a file in your son's journals. However, from what Iknow of him by his memories and his writing, I do not believe he would behappy. He was proud of your career as a scientist, and now you have destroyedthat. You say you did it for him, but I do not believe he would have wantedthat. Yes, I believe your son would be very sad now. I am sorry, Doctor, but Icannot help you.
May I?
I have surveyed all the turbolifts and service crawlways on this deck.
Heavy damage to section twenty three A has cut off access to Sickbay. Ihave ordered a security team to bring casualties here until further notice.
In that circumstance, re-establishing control should be our top priority.
Yes, sir. The most direct route is blocked, but I believe we can use astarboard service crawlway.
That is correct, sir. We have approximately fifty two metres remaining inthis crawlway before we can safely exit into a main corridor.
Commander, the current cannot be off down from this relay box.
If the energy flowing through that arc were interrupted by anonconductive material, it is likely the circuit would be broken.
Commander, much of my bodyframe is made up of tripolymers, a nonconductive material.
Yes, sir.
The power surge would cause a system failure in my internal processorsand melt my primary power couplings. However, there is a chance that the damagewould not be irreparable.
Commander, our options are very limited.
My positronic brain has several layers of shielding to protect me frompower surges. It would be possible for you to remove my cranial unit and takeit with you.
Yes, sir. Is something wrong, sir?
My memory core and neural nets are self-contained. I would be fine, sir.
A remarkable experience, Commander.
Apparently so, sir. My neural nets are still fully operational. You maybegin by opening the ventral access panel located two centimetres beneath myright ear.
Very good, Commander. You have established a connection. I can now raisethe door.
The power reaching those monitors has been diverted from the Bridge, sir.
No, sir. I do not have access to the containment field. You will have toestablish a new link. Locate the ODN conduit, sir.
Yes, sir. You must now change the input matrix in my secondary opticalport and then connect the ODN conduit.
That is not the correct port, sir.
You must hurry, Commander. The containment field has dropped to sixteenpercent.
The field continues to drop, sir. Collapse is imminent.
I have a connection, sir. I am now stabilising the containment field.
Commander, Starfleet has added a diplomatic mission to Oceanus Four.
Wesley, was our attempt to make you uncomfortable effective?
Did you find our deception pleasing?
Have you found the Academy challenging, Wesley?
Although I did extremely well scholastically, my lack of humanunderstanding often created social obstacles.
I particularly remember the phenomenon of practical jokes, several ofwhich I fell victim to.
Good for you.
I also found social gatherings difficult. There was one event, an Academytradition, the Sadie Hawkins Dance?
A notably awkward experience.
Really? Your mother is quite an expert. She recently taught me.
I would be happy to teach you dancing. I have programmed a comprehensiveseventeen part course with some interesting holographic partners.
Geordi, a conflict has started between the planetary evolution team andthe stellar physicists. Each wishes to be the first to use the thermal imagingarray.
A coin. Very good. I will replicate one immediately.
Data here.
Yes, Doctor. On my way.
You wanted to see me, Doctor?
Certainly.
It does not bother me. In fact, I am happy to
Computer, resume normal illumination.
Mister Worf, you will find a small alien ship off the starboard bow.
Are you all right, Captain?
Wesley's subsequent diversions gave me adequate time to modify the palmbeacon. The optical burst patterns we programmed were successful incounteracting the addictive effects of the game.
We programmed the main computer to transmit the same optical burst to alldisplay screens, work stations and terminals throughout the ship.
Aye, sir.
Captain Picard regrets detaining you, but it will be necessary for awhile longer. In addition, I require access to your ship's computer.
I am going to attempt to penetrate the Romulan Central Information net.
I have unique skills that may allow me to succeed.
Your entry codes can be easily reconfigured after we depart. And Captain
We will also need to communicate with the Enterprise in sector twothirteen.
Using conventional means, that would be true. However, I suggest wepiggy-back our signal on Romulan subspace transmissions.
A human metaphor, pardon me. We would use a Romulan signal as a carrierfor own one, thus disguising its origin.
I believe it would. During the last hour, I have conducted a systematicreview of the entire Romulan subspace grid. I have compared my findings withthe specifications of your own transmission array. They appear to becompatible.
Thank you for your co-operation.
Negative, Captain. The Romulan Information net employs a progressiveencryption lock. I have been unable to penetrate their security measures.
By all means, Ambassador.
Yes, sir, the twenty ninth is the only one I cannot bypass.
In what manner, sir?
Interesting. I have not considered that. And Captain Picard has been arole model in my quest to be more human.
Yes, Ambassador.
You are half human.
Yet you have chosen a Vulcan way of life.
In effect, you have abandoned what I have sought all my life.
Ambassador Spock, may I ask a personal question?
As you examine your life, do you find you have missed your humanity?
No regrets. That is a human expression.
We are losing our Romulan carrier wave, sir.
Captain, the Romulan subspace logs identify a transmission from the
This would not appear to be routine. I was able to trace the source ofthe transmission. It incorporates the code prefix of Romulan intelligence.
It is a short sequence of numbers. One four zero zero.
No, sir.
How do you know that, Ambassador?
Lieutenant Commander Data.
Perhaps you would be happier in another job.
I believe so, Ambassador.
I will be more observant in the future, sir.
Communication lines have been terminated at the transmitter, but I amquite certain the message was sent prior to the interruption.
I disagree, Commander. After studying the design of this structure, Ihave determined that our best route of escape would be the underground exit tothe east of this wing. I have disconnected certain security scanners to assistus. I am afraid we cannot permit you to warn your guards.
Captain, we will need to reach our transport site in fourteen minutes.
Captain, I have a visual identification of Senator Pardek of Romulus.
Yes, sir.
He has been in public service since he was a young man, a senator fornine decades. He is considered a man of the people. He has sponsored manyreforms. Reportedly, Romulan leadership considers him to be somewhat of aradical because he has been an advocate of peace throughout his career.
The district he represents is called the Krocton segment. He maintains adwelling there.
There is more, sir. I have taken the liberty of expanding the parametersof my search, and have discovered that Pardek has several relatives in the
Thank you, sir.
Removable?
No, Doctor. They are fully integrated components.
Captain K'Vada, is this the Captain's quarters, or my own?
These quarters were obviously intended for one crewmember, sir. There isbut a single sleeping space.
Since I do not require sleep, I propose you take the shelf, sir. I amcontent to stand.
Are you comfortable, sir?
Good night, Captain. Sleep well, sir.
Sir? Was I making noise, sir?
I was processing all of the information we have accumulated on Romulansociety. I am preparing for the task of impersonating a Romulan.
Would you like me to discontinue, sir?
I am not looking at anything, sir. I am continuing to organise my files.
I am sorry if I was disturbing you, sir. I will not look in yourdirection.
Do you not wish to sleep, sir?
I would be happy to. I have been studying the Krocton segment, as youasked, and have selected an appropriate site for our transport.
I would not have thought it possible, sir. I am eager to test the successof our efforts. It does remain to be seen if the Romulans will accept us.
I do not entirely understand, sir. As a Vulcan, Ambassador Spock wouldsimply see death as the logical result of his father's illness.
Considering the exceptionally long lifespan of Vulcans, it does seem oddthat Sarek and Spock did not choose to resolve those differences in the timeallowed.
This is definitely the street on which the intelligence scan of Spock and
I am sorry, Captain. I will be more careful.
I understand, sir. I have found the place where they were standing.
It is here, at this doorway. A legal intercessor's office. The name issimilar to Pardek's. It would appear to be one of his relatives.
Nonetheless, I recommend we keep this location under observation. I haveclearly determined Pardek's routine. On days when the Senate is not in session,he invariably comes to this section after the median hour.
We are here for the day, from the city of Rateg.
Why do you say that?
It is a misconception that all Rategs speak with a particular inflection.
We may not have to. Direct your view to the far corner, sir.
Is that not Pardek?
Perhaps you should appear to enjoy your soup, sir.
If the Pentharan spheral forecasts are correct, ten to twelve degrees
The odds of that occurring, Captain, are extremely unlikely, given thetime frame.
This way, sir.
If you're referring to the first production model automobile of thetwentieth century, perhaps the subsequent Model A might be a more apt analogy,since I am Doctor Noonian Soong's revised prototype.
Is there a problem, Professor?
Would I be correct, Professor, in assuming that you know whether or not Iam still alive in the twenty sixth century?
Since you seemed to know so much about Captain Picard and the ship, Iassumed that you would.
Yes, sir. Sorry, sir.
What have you learned about the tectonic stability around the drillingsites?
Certainly.
Two hundred nine anomalies all within acceptable parameters.
I will have your answered questions as soon as possible, Professor.
The computer has configured the drilling pattern and specified depths.
I know of no one who said that, Professor.
DATA : Ready, sir.
Target one is emitting two thousand cubic metres per second.
DATA : Target two, one thousand six hundred.
DATA : CO2 concentrations remain unchanged at upper elevations.
No change, sir.
Elevated CO2 levels at twenty kilometres, sir.
His queries to me primarily focused on Doctor Soong's
Both epicentres are beneath the two southernmost drill sites, Captain.
It is likely that we overestimated the geologic stability around the CO2pockets, Captain.
Music, Professor.
Yes, sir. Mozart's Jupiter symphony in C major, Bach's Brandenburg
Computer, eliminate programme one. Computer, eliminate programme two.
Actually, I am capable of distinguishing over one hundred and fiftysimultaneous compositions, but in order to analyse the aesthetics, I try tokeep it to ten or less.
I am assisting Commander La Forge with a very complex calculation. Itdemands a great deal of my concentration.
You did ask me to be thorough.
Certainly, as soon as my work here is completed.
Yes, Worf.
Patch him through, please.
There were no errors, Geordi. The variance must be no more than pointzero six terawatts.
The motion of the dust has created a great deal of electrostatic energyin the upper atmosphere. With a modified phaser blast, we could create a shockfront that would encircle the planet and ionise the particles.
With one exception, sir. The particles would be converted into a highenergy plasma which our shields could absorb and then re-direct harmlessly intospace.
Precisely, sir.
If our phaser discharge is off by as little as point zero six terawatts,it would cause a cascading exothermal inversion.
We would completely burn off the planet's atmosphere.
Aye, sir.
Yes, sir. After an eight point three second burst from the dish, we'lldischarge all EPS taps through the phasers.
Doctor Moseley's computers can accomplish the same task, sir. but Geordiwould be better able to anticipate unexpected variances.
The deflector dish has been reconfigured, Captain.
Stand by for auto-phaser interlock. Activating deflector beam.
Activating shield invertors, now.
Understood, sir.
I do not believe any of these items belong to you, Professor.
Why have you stolen these objects? To put in a museum?
But this vessel? And the temporal distortion that coincided with yourarrival?
Then you are not an historian.
What are your intentions, Professor?
I assume your hand print will open the door whether you are conscious ornot.
You were correct to suspect him, sir. But he is not from the future, heis from the past.
I believe you will find all of the missing items in the vessel, sir.
He claims to be a twenty second century inventor, Captain.
Every nanosecond in this continuum is a moment in history, once it haselapsed.
It should be interesting.
Doctor Ja'Dar, how closely will the Enterprise need to follow the testvehicle?
The prototype has been towed into position, Captain.
Sensors indicate the field generators on the planet surface are charging,
The test ship has successfully entered warp, sir.
The test ship is maintaining at warp two point three five, sir.
No, sir. The effect has been localised to within two kilometres of thewavefront.
That is four hundred and fifty percent more efficient than our own warpdrive.
Sir, the wave's power signature is fluctuating.
It is expanding toward us, sir. It appears to be interfering with ourengines, Captain.
Our last readings indicate the craft exploded due to extreme shearingstress.
Sir, sensors are coming back online.
Aye, sir. The wave is continuing on course for the Lemma Two colony. Itis bearing zero two zero, mark three two nine.
Sir, the wave has increased in velocity to warp four point one.
Sir, the energy level of the wave has increased by a factor of twelve. Atthis rate, it will have increased by a factor of two hundred by the time itreaches Lemma Two.
Because the soliton is constantly changing in both frequency andamplitude, it will be extremely difficult to achieve an exact match.
Warp six point three seven.
Which would require the Enterprise to go through the wave.
The wave has been growing in size as well as power. There is insufficienttime remaining for us to circumvent it before it reaches Lemma Two.
The wave has increased speed to warp seven point two, Captain.
We have passed through the wave, Captain.
Sir, there are life forms present in that biolab.
Readings also indicate the presence of a humanoid, Captain.
At our current speed, four minutes thirty seconds, sir.
Captain, biolab four is one of the areas that will be flooded with ionradiation.
The soliton wave has closed to ten kilometres, Captain.
The wave has closed to one kilometre, Captain.
The wave is about to overtake us, sir.
The wave has been disrupted, sir.
I am picking up massive gravitational fluctuations, sir.
Aye, sir.
I have located the Vico, sir. The vessel appears to be adrift.
Outer and inner hulls have been breached. Decks seven through twelve areexposed to space.
I cannot, sir. The emergency bulkheads on that deck are in place. Ourlinkup signal cannot penetrate them.
Stress readings indicate considerable pressure on the transversesupports.
Yes, sir, but the risk of structural collapse is quite high.
This station is inoperable, sir.
Core transfer is engaged.
I could move the beam, sir. However, it may initiate the collapse of thesurrounding supports. I recommend you and Geordi return to the ship.
DATA : Yes, sir.
Yes. Then I will take you to the corridor. We will transport back to the
I am an android. My strength is many times that of a human. It is goingto be okay. I will count to three. One two three.
Energise.
Counsellor, I must join Commander La Forge in Engineering. If you willexcuse me.
Nearly eighty three percent of their records have been lost.
Geordi, as a child, did you ever experience a traumatic event?
Yes.
Timothy no longer has that kind of support.
Fracture points indicate that the energy burst came from a range of lessthan three thousand metres.
The Breen have outposts in this sector. The attack on the Vico isconsistent with their battle tactics and their level of technology.
I do not understand.
Aye, sir.
Counsellor, exactly how shall I proceed?
Hello, Timothy. May I enter?
Ah. You are attempting to recreate the Dokkaran temple of Kural Hanesh?
Do you wish a frank evaluation?  It lacks the harmony thatcharacterised this particular temple and Dokkaran culture in general.
No, I am not capable of hatred.
You are making an unwarranted extrapolation. I was merely offering anaesthetic analysis of this particular model. The base appears quite sturdy.
May I suggest a different approach? You were attempting to construct theupper level before the supports were in place. Observe.
Data here.
I will join you in a moment, Geordi. Data out. Lieutenant La Forgerequires my assistance.
I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and physically.
Better is a highly subjective term. I do not, for example, possess theability to experience emotion as humans do.
That is correct.
My positronic brain is not capable of generating those conditions.
That would be acceptable.
The Black Cluster was formed almost nine billion years ago when hundredsof protostars collapsed in close proximity. The resulting gravitational forcesare both violent and highly unpredictable.
Timothy, your head movements are counterproductive. Can you be still?
The servo mechanisms in my neck are designed to approximate humanmovements. I did not realize the effect was so distracting.
No. I am the only one.
My service experience does not yet warrant such a position.
Fear is a quality that I do not possess.
Correct.
I have never had a nightmare. I do not require sleep. Timothy, are youhaving disturbing dreams?
Is that satisfactory? 
DATA + TIMOTHY: Thank you, Doctor.
You may use mine.
Perhaps you should return to your quarters.
Thank you.  It is very expressive.
Is your painting representative of something?
Timothy, you understand that you may speak with me about anything youwish? Any subject?
At times, I too find it difficult to share my thoughts with others. I amnot always confident that I am expressing myself in a manner which humans cancomprehend. But do I know that
He laughed.
It is certainly not consistent with his android persona.
Then my work with him is done.
How, Counsellor?
The complex polysaccharides, in reaction with the carbon dioxide,produces an unusual combination of texture and effervescence.
I am not capable of tasting in the manner you suggest. However, I cananalyse the composition of a dessert and make comparative conclusions about itspossible effect on the human palate. But I neither like it nor dislike it.
I have often wondered what it must be like to have one's mouth water inanticipation of the arrival of a confection, or to feel the pleasure I haveobserved in humans as they consume it.
I am an android. That will never change.
I have often wished to be human. I study people carefully in order tomore closely approximate human behaviour.
But I cannot take pride in my abilities. I cannot take pleasure in myaccomplishments.
I would gladly risk feeling bad at times if it also meant that I couldalso taste my dessert.
DATA : Acknowledged.
Phaser energy was reflected by the gravitational wavefronts. It issimilar to the phenomenon distorting our sensor signals.
Yes, sir. Disruptors would be ineffectual.
It would be extremely difficult to maintain.
Given the effects we have observed, the probability is exceedinglyremote, sir.
That is highly unlikely. Our investigations have clearly demonstrated
Timothy, androids do not lie.
Please explain.
It is not possible. The onboard control systems for every starshiprequire a user code clearance. You could not have inadvertently affected any ofthe Vico's systems.
Timothy, accompany me, please.  I want you torecall everything you heard people say aboard the Vico before it was destroyed.
Sir, drop the shields.
Captain, drop the shields.
Our own shields caused the increases in the wavefronts, sir. We have beenexperiencing a harmonic amplification effect.
Precisely. That is also what destroyed the Vico. When Timothy rememberedsimilar procedures on his ship, I initiated an analysis of shield output towavefront amplitude and discovered a correlation.
Difficult?
That would require an emotional context which I cannot provide.
Hello, Timothy.
I am operating within established parameters. How are you?
I have been told that imitation is the highest form of flattery.
I have many human friends. I would be pleased to count you among them.
It is perplexing to me that the Ullians' ability to retrieve memory is sohighly prized. If an event were important enough to be recovered, why would ithave been forgotten?
That is correct.
My understanding of the human brain suggests that the process is the samefor you. Each memory is encoded in chains of molecules. If you want to retrieveit, you simply access the proper RNA sequence.
Then in what way is it different?
Perhaps you remember the pleasant memories and forget the unpleasantones?
It would seem there is no predictable pattern to human memory.
Four days, eleven hours.
I assume from your tone of voice that you were unsuccessful.
Emergency medical team to Doctor Crusher's office immediately.
We seem to have eliminated the all known factors that may have caused thecomas, except for the Ullians.
Aye, sir.
We have yet to receive transmissions from the two planets of the Nelsystem. Perhaps they will show different results.
Please clarify.
Why would we do that?
Yes.
You are searching for instances of Iresine syndrome?
Two cases of Iresine syndrome on Hurada Three, at exactly the time Tarminand his group was there.
DATA : Yes, Captain.
We have uncovered several cases, sir, but we have not yet completed ourinvestigation.
Yes, sir. We will keep searching, sir.
And were the Ullians present?
Counsellor. Are you all right?
We discovered two instances of unexplained coma on Nel Three while the
An artificial environment has been constructed on the southern continent,sir.
Yes, Captain. Sensors are reading human life forms.
No, sir.
The fragment has a density of one hundred billion kilograms per cubiccentimetre. As a result, when it passes Moab Four, it will cause tectonicshifts well beyond eight point seven on the Richter Scale.
Increasing impulse power to tractor emitters. EPS power levels rising.
Aye, sir.
We have lost one of the emitter circuits.
DATA : We've lost
The second lateral emitter circuit.
Shipwide life support failure in fifteen seconds, sir.
Termination of all life support in five seconds.
The fragment's course has been altered by one point two one degrees, sir.
The characteristic response to the Kriskov Gambit is to counter with theel-Mitra Exchange, particularly since I have already taken both your rooks. Bymissing that opportunity, you have left your king vulnerable.
As you wish, Counsellor. Check.
Intriguing. You have devised a completely unanticipated response to aclassic attack. You will checkmate my king in seven moves.
You are a challenging opponent, Counsellor.
I will honour our agreement.
One Samarian Sunset, made in the traditional style.
I hope you enjoy it.
I hope you enjoy it.
Can I get you something? A beverage?
The databanks that identify who I am are not functioning.
This vessel is called the Enterprise. We are part of an organizationcalled the United Federation of Planets. The Federation is currently in a stateof war.
Starfleet Command believes the Lysians are using a new weapon which hasshifted the balance of power to their favour.
Our scientists theorise the Lysians are using an energy wave, eitherplasma-based or a subspace interference pattern. The weapon severely disrupts astarship's computer system as well as the mental functions of its crew.
Our mission is part of a highly coordinated effort to put an end to thewar. There are other vessels on other fronts, all working according to anintricate plan.
At our current speed, approximately thirty seven hours.
The ship matches the Starfleet description of a Lysian destroyer. A shortrange attack vessel with disruptor style weapons, and a standard crew of fiftythree.
The destroyer has minimal shields. Their disruptor capacity appears to beonly two point one megajoules.
Captain, the destroyer is hailing us.
It is conceivable, sir.
The Lysians have stopped transmitting, Captain. They are powering uptheir disruptors. They have locked onto us, sir.
There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt torewrite the locator subroutine.
Yes.
I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparentuniqueness among the crew.
Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an entire raceof artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet for others of mykind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not presently aware.
I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the case thatevery starship in the Federation is equipped with an artificial lifeform suchas myself.
There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In that case,
As well as the crew records, and the personal logs.
We are entering the Lysian system, sir.
Sensors show several objects in our path, sir. They are twenty ninemetres in length and are unmanned.
The pods are equipped with fusion-generated pulse lasers and minimalshielding.
We are through the perimeter, sir.
I am picking up no vessels, no additional sentry pods.
Armaments consist of four laser cannons and thirty nine cobalt fusionwarheads with magnetic propulsion. Defensive shield output is four point threekilojoules.
Fifteen thousand, three hundred eleven.
The intense electromagnetic whirlwinds on the moon's surface make itvirtually impossible to locate the source of the signal, Captain.
I believe so, Commander. At Starfleet Academy.
I will verify it. Just as I thought. It is a Starfleet subspace distresssignal, standard to Daedalus-class starships.
One hundred seventy two years, sir.
The USS Essex under the command of Captain Bryce Shumar disappeared inthis sector over two centuries ago.
I have accessed the subspace transponder signature of the Essex. It isidentical to the signal coming from the moon's surface.
Shields are holding, sir.
Forward thrusters have failed, sir. We are losing power.
Initiating emergency landing procedures.
It is unlikely that we will be able to establish communication with theship, given the electromagnetic interference.
There are no instruments left of practical value that have not beendamaged by our landing, sir.
The tricorder is picking up high levels of EM bursts across the spectrum.
We might be able to employ virtual imaging to interpolate  missing data.
My apologies. It seems my primary speech processors are experiencing aminor fluctuation. I will have it corrected in a moment.
Sir, given the EM field properties of this moon, I recommend a searchpattern beginning in the southern polar region.
The Essex signal was never clearly located, sir. A systematic survey ofthe moon from a polar orbit might be more practical.
Understood, sir.
He would not move to a polar orbit.
They've trapped us.
My entity's artificial substructure may be useful.
Do it.
I can reverse the polarity of their forcefields to isolate this room.
What are you looking at? You, Klingon. Attack me.  Are you afraid?
And I have no fear of killing you.
He's telling the truth. Their heading has changed.
Silence, Klingon.
I don't trust him. It may be a deception.
Silence that child!
It is taking too long. We should have been there by now. He ismanipulating you.
He will try to delay until a rescue attempt is possible.
Right, That's enough. Sit down, both of you. You over there, you there.
You will cooperate, Captain. You will cooperate or someone will die. Whoshall it be? How about the Klingon? Get another one.
Pick one to die, Captain, or I kill them both.
 Tell them to stop, or I kill everyone inthis room, starting with you.
We must be able to use the transporters.
It's a trick. He is trying to divide us.
Why are you suddenly being so helpful?
Without the protection of the forcefields, we are completely vulnerable.
What about the weapons?
Klingon.
You will die too, Picard.
Lieutenant, I must apologise for my inadvertent misconduct toward you.
Your restraint was most remarkable.
The Denver's standard crew complement is twenty three, but they weretransporting five hundred seventeen colonists to the Beloti sector.
Aye, sir.
Captain, we are approaching the designated coordinates.
Sensors find no evidence of the shuttle anywhere within the star system.
Scan shows no debris within that radius.
Captain, I am detecting an unusual reading. It appears to be a neutrinoemission with no visible source.
I have none, sir. I recommend we launch a probe.
Sensors show no evidence of any unusual phenomenon.
The probe is no longer transmitting.
Why?
Initiating pre-launch sequence.
Clearance is granted. The shuttle is under way, sir.
At warp six, fifty three hours, sir.
The starboard nacelle has sustained a direct impact. We are venting driveplasma.
Core shutdown is unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
Ejection systems offline. Core breach is imminent.
I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomised.
Eight, Ace, Queen. The dealer receives a four.
Ten. Seven. No help there. A pair of ladies for the Doctor. The dealerreceives a nine. Doctor? May I remind you since you show the highest hand, youcontrol the next bet.
Jack. Four. Deuce. Six.
I will also see the bet. Seven. A possible straight for Commander Riker.
Too rich for my blood.
I recommend we use a gravitron polarimeter. It will perform a similarfunction.
No anomalous readings were reported.
Aye, sir.
The distortion field is fluctuating.
There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
Captain, something is emerging.
The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
Captain, I suggest we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship'strajectory.
Starboard nacelle sustained a direct impact. Venting drive plasma.
Core shutdown was unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
Ejection systems are offline. Core breach is imminent.
I assure you, Commander, the cards have been sufficiently randomised.
Eight. Ace. Queen. The dealer receives a four.
Ten. Seven. No help there. A pair of ladies for the Doctor. Dealerreceives a nine. Doctor? May I remind you since you show the highest hand, youcontrol the next bet.
Jack. Four. Deuce. Six.
The internal scans were negative. There was no evidence of auditoryanomalies anywhere on the ship.
The distortion field is fluctuating.
There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
Captain, something is emerging.
The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
Captain, I suggest we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship'strajectory.
Starboard nacelle has sustained a direct impact. We are venting driveplasma.
Core shutdown was unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
Ejector systems are offline. Core breach is imminent
I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomised.
Eight. Ace.
But no one has bet.
This is highly improbable.
The sound itself appears to have been real. However the acoustic energydoes not correspond to any ship's system, nor to any voice communications sentat the time you heard it.
Computer, perform a narrow bandwidth analysis. Eliminate all non-vocalwaveform components.
Computer, continuous playback please. There are approximately onethousand voices overlapping. The voices are those of the Enterprise crew. Ourvoices.
I have a hypothesis that may explain that, Captain. I have analysed therecording Doctor Crusher made. Most of it is quite ordinary. One hundred fiftydiscussions about ship operations, two hundred fifty two conversations of apersonal nature, five couples engaged in romantic encounters.
There is evidence of some sort of disaster aboard the Enterprise, severeenough that the Captain ordered all hands to abandon ship. I have isolatedthree segments of the recording that are crucial.
DATA : Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
We have seen that echoes, or after-images, from previous loops appear asdistortions in the dekyon field. We may be able to send a deliberate echo intothe next loop.
If the dekyon emission is modulated correctly, it will set up resonancesin my positronic subprocessors. I will receive the information on what youwould call a subconscious level.
Particle accelerators at full power.
The distortion field is fluctuating.
There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
Captain, something is emerging.
The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
Captain, I recommend we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship'strajectory.
Starboard nacelle has sustained a direct impact. We are venting driveplasma.
Core shutdown is unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
Ejection systems are offline. Core breach is imminent.
I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomised.
Three. All threes.
Certainly.
I have encountered the numeral three an inordinate number of times overthe last two hours.
I have isolated three segments of this recording that are crucial.
DATA : Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
To date we have encountered two thousand eighty five conspicuous examplesof the number three.
The distortion field is fluctuating.
There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
Captain, something is emerging.
The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
Captain, I suggest we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship'strajectory.
The tractor beam will not be successful. I am decompressing the mainshuttlebay.
At the last moment, I speculated that three might refer to the number ofrank insignia on Commander Riker's uniform. That indicated to me that hissuggestion might be the correct course of action.
That is possible. I may also have been inadvertently responsible for theunexplained appearances of the number three.
Aye, sir.
We should be arriving at Earth in ten hours sixteen minutes, sir.
We unsuccessfully tried fifty three different computational models in aneffort to simulate the movements of the Nova Squadron just prior to the crash.
However it was well within operational limits.
We did find that Wesley opened his coolant interlock just beforebeginning the manoeuvre around Titan.
That procedure would be extremely hazardous while the ship was in flight.
The asteroid has shattered. However, the core is still intact and stillon a collision course with Tessen Three.
Yes, sir. It is of sufficient size and density to cause planetwidedamage.
It will reach the upper atmosphere in forty four seconds and impact onthe planet eleven seconds later.
Sir, the core is composed of nitrium and chrondite. It is unlikelyanother photon torpedo will be of any effect.
Thirty seconds to impact.
Impact in seventeen seconds.
The remaining debris is of no threat to the planet, sir.
A level-four diagnostic of the food replication systems has failed todetect any faults in the orientation terminals.
There is an energy fluctuation in one of the utility access corridors.
We have traced the failure to a data net interface which routesreplicator selections to the correct subprocessors.
We have lost helm control, sir.
Aye, sir.
We have not yet identified the substance, Commander.
There is none present in the residue, either.
That would suggest the nitrium has been organically metabolised.
This residue would be the waste left behind.
The dilithium chamber shows no anomalous readings.
We believe the parasites came through the ship's hull after we destroyedthe asteroid near Tessen Three.
Aye, sir.
At warp nine, five hours twenty minutes, sir.
Captain, with our sensors unable to detect the parasites and given thespeed with which they appear to be moving through the ship
In several cases, an exanogen gas barrier has been known to slow theprogress of metal parasites.
If we reconfigure a particle beam with a high concentration of nitrium,and project it toward one of the asteroids.
Turbolift velocity is beginning to fluctuate, Captain.
We have reached the bridge, sir.
Captain, we're losing life support on decks eleven and twelve.
Aye, sir.
If we maintain our current speed, two hours, twenty three minutes, sir.
Aye, sir.
Computer, transfer power from warp engines to life support.
Activate Bussard collector.
Reconfigure hydrogen plasma mixture to include thirty percent nitrium.
Project emitter beam, heading zero two four mark zero four one.
The plan was successful, sir.
The Ferengi report their containment field is collapsing.
Their reactor core is unstable, Captain.
Two, sir.
I would be pleased to escort you around the ship.
Your empathic powers do not perceive anything because as an android, Ihave no emotions.
Extremely rude behaviour.
Perhaps you would care for something to drink?
Bartender!
There do not seem to be enough waiters on duty.
Excuse me. I believe I will stay.
Thank you, Lieutenant. The crowd seemed a bit too ebullient for comfort.
DATA : Data to Captain Picard.
DATA : But sir, Chancellor Alrik is waiting to receive you in holodeckseven.
In order for the lateral sensors to complete their scheduledobservations, additional processing time will be required.
Will two hours be enough time to complete the high-resolution series onthe neutron star?
The rotational period of the neutron star is one point three fiveseconds.
Given the selections, I prefer FGC four seven.
Shields have registered an impact, however sensors show nothing in thevicinity.
The drag coefficient continues to increase. Our velocity has fallen bytwelve percent. Velocity is increasing. Ship's speed has stabilised at onequarter impulse.
I did nothing. The problem seems to have corrected itself.
We have simulated several such fields, but were unable to reproduce thesame drag coefficient.
Since we have only experienced the phenomenon once, it is impossible toestimate the risks.
I believe what you are seeing is the effect of the fluid dynamicprocesses inherent in the large scale motion of highly rarified gas.
Where?
I do not see it. It is interesting that people try to find meaningfulpatterns in things that are essentially random. I have noticed that the imagesthey perceive sometimes suggest what they are thinking about at that particularmoment. Besides, it is clearly a bunny rabbit.
Sir, as we move deeper into the nebula, sensors indicate that the levelsof helium and trionium are continuing to rise.
No, sir. We are well within tolerance levels.
Shields have registered an impact.
There is no indication of anything near the ship.
Until we determine the cause of the drag coefficient, I would notrecommend it, sir.
The drag coefficient is still present, but it has stabilised.
It is an irregular lattice composed of approximately forty seven millionstrands of energy.
It may be difficult, sir. I am detecting a significant number of strandsbehind us.
At our current speed, we will clear the nebula in twelve minutes fourseconds.
We are moving through a dense concentration of energy strands.
Captain, density appears to be lower off the starboard bow.
It appears to be an energy vortex of highly complex patterns. Possibly alife form.
It is in direct physical contact with our shields.
Aye, sir. No effect.
Captain, I am detecting a transmission emanating from within the system.
It is self-repeating, of unknown pattern.
A small moon orbiting the fourth planet.
Indeterminate. I am attempting to screen out sensor interference.
Sir, there is no indication of other Borg activity within sensor range.
The Borg are extremely computer dependent. A systems failure will destroythem.
The vessel is traveling at warp seven point six. Mass two point fivemillion metric tons. Configuration, cubical.
Its dimensions indicate that it is a scout ship similar to the one thatcrashed. Interference from the star's radiation will shield us from theirsensors. We should remain undetected until they enter the system.
At present speed they will arrive in thirty one hours seven minutes.
The shape is a paradox, sir. It cannot exist in real space or time.
He will be unsuccessful, and will store the shape in his memory banks. Itwill be shunted to a subroutine for further analysis.
It is designed so that each approach they take will spawn an anomaloussolution. The anomalies are designed to interact with each other, linkingtogether to form an endless and unsolvable puzzle.
We are now entering position. Radiation levels are rising.
Solar radiation is rendering our sensors inoperable. At last known courseand speed, the Borg vessel should enter the system in three minutes.
We will arrive within transporter range in three minutes twenty oneseconds.
Negative, Captain. Sensors are unable to locate them anywhere withintransporter range.
Aye, sir.
Excuse me, sir.
Captain. The diagnostic of the transporter system shows an anomalousenergy fluctuation. I will need to inspect the imaging scanner in transporterroom three.
Captain? I have a personal favour to ask. I considered Commander La Forgeto be my best friend. I believe it is my responsibility to plan and conduct thememorial service. May I have your permission to do so?
Thank you, sir.
I believe the cause of the accident may be related to the explosion onthe Romulan ship.
In all likelihood, the explosion damaged the Romulan cloaking device,causing it to discharge chroniton particles. I am detecting a chroniton fieldin here.
I suspect they travelled through the transporter beam. That may have beenthe cause of Geordi and Ro's death. I will go to the Romulan ship. Perhaps Ican discover the source of the emissions.
They pose no danger to humans. However, some of the ship's systems may beaffected by prolonged exposure. When I return I will devise a method toeradicate them.
Lieutenant, I am planning a memorial service for Commander La Forge and
Captain Picard asked me to arrange a ceremony that was appropriate. Ihave given a great deal of thought as to what is appropriate in this instance.
Hold position here.
I find I am having difficulty deciding what kind of service to have. Doyou have any suggestions?
Ensign Ro was Bajoran. Her beliefs should be reflected as well. Howevertheir death rituals are quite complicated.
I am not certain that either human or Bajoran rites are fitting, and Ihave researched the funerary customs of over five thousand cultures to noavail.
Resume course. In almost all societies, it is traditional to say a ritualfarewell to those you call friends. I never knew what a friend was until I met
Why?
Begin docking procedure.
Chroniton emissions may have been responsible for the accident whichclaimed the lives of our officers.
Was your cloaking device damaged in the explosion?
That explains the chroniton fields I am detecting in here now. For yourown safety, it is important to eliminate those emissions.
There is no way to predict what will happen when the chronitons interactwith the new engine core.
The field emissions are particularly strong in this area.
This is puzzling. Three more chroniton fields have formed aboard the
We should begin decontamination immediately. Run an internal sensor sweepfor locations of all chroniton fields on the Enterprise.
I do not understand how these new fields have formed. No transporter beamhas been active in any of those areas. I cannot see that they have anything incommon.
In fact, they seem to be appearing at random.
Can you narrow the focus of the scan to pinpoint the locations?
Go to science station two on the main Bridge. Use a lateral sensor arrayto get a more precise reading. I will modify an anyon emitter to eliminate thefields once they've been isolated.
Data here.
Acknowledged.
Excuse me for interrupting, Lieutenant.
I'm detecting a chroniton field in your room. May I scan the area?
Do you think the others will think this service appropriate?
I am glad you approve, Doctor.
Go ahead, Chief.
DATA : No.
No. Anyon emissions are harmless. Please begin immediately.
I see no reason to delay our departure. The chroniton fields have beencleared from all critical areas.
Curious. Captain, I believe we should decontaminate this room beforegetting underway.
Chief.
Increase anyon emissions to six thousand particles per second anddecontaminate this area.
Yes, sir.
I believe I may know what has happened, sir.
It would explain the mysterious chroniton fields
If they were cloaked in some way.
If I am right, sir, they are, and in this room. Their brief appearancecoincided with the anyon sweep. Perhaps the anyons neutralise the cloakingeffect. Chief Brossmer.
Set the anoynic beam to its highest level and flood Ten Forward.
Of course.
Geordi, it is good to see you.
It appears to be a probe of some kind, but there is no Starfleet recordof this shape or design.
The probe is composed of paricium and talgonite, a ceramic alloy.
The beam is scanning the shield's perimeter. The probe is emitting anunusual particle stream.
Where did you get this?
No, sir. The particle emission is most unusual. I am unable to block it.
The probe is moving with us, sir, holding relative position.
Commander, I have been analysing the nucleonic beam. I believe it wouldbe possible to reflect the particles back toward the probe in a way that woulddisrupt the signal.
I am attempting to do so, Doctor.
The beam is fully restored, Doctor.
It is an unmapped system of six planets, sir.
Not any longer, sir. The star went nova. All life in the system wasdestroyed approximately one thousand years ago.
The nucleonic beam has ceased, Commander. The probe has shut down.
The bifocal vision aid is typical of the era. The weapon is a forty fivecalibre double-action cavalry pistol invented by Colt Firearms in 1873.
The composition of the exposed rock face has been altered by exposure totriolic waves.
The by-product of an energy source employed by very few species becauseof its deleterious effect on living tissue.
Interesting. There is a twelve percent decomposition of the bitanium inthe neural pathway links. That suggests the alloys are vulnerable to
Emotion, sir?
I am simply trying to make an objective assessment.
I believe so, sir.
No, sir. My brother's positronic brain has a type L phase discriminatingamplifier. Mine is a type R.
Yes, sir.
Decomposition strongly indicates that life was terminated approximatelyfive hundred years ago. That would be consistent with the other artefacts werecovered.
In relative terms, perhaps not. Nevertheless, it seems clear that my lifeis to end in the late nineteenth century.
There is no way anyone can prevent it, sir. At some future date, I willbe transported back to nineteenth century Earth, where I will die. It hasoccurred. It will occur.
Are you referring to the foreknowledge of my death?
I have no particular desire to discuss the matter. Do you need to talkabout it?
Why?
On the contrary. I find it rather comforting.
I have often wondered about my own mortality as I have seen others aroundme age. Until now it has been theoretically possible that I would live anunlimited period of time. And although some might find this attractive, to meit only reinforces the fact that I am artificial.
Tough? As in difficult?
I expected to make new friends.
And then to outlive them as well.
It provides a sense of completion to my future. In a way, I am not thatdifferent from anyone else. I can now look forward to death.
One might also conclude that it brings me one step closer to being human.
Counsellor. Commander.
Would either of you mind if I made a personal inquiry?
I am perceiving an apparent change in the way others behave toward me.
I understand. I am also fond of you, Commander. And you as well,
Captain, sensors are picking up an unusual temporal disturbance on asmall area of the planet's surface. Forty two degrees seven minutes north byeighty eight degrees declination east.
Spectral analysis shows a high level of triolic waves emanating from thesame location.
Affirmative, sir. The magnetic signature is identical to the one found inthe cavern.
Only with long term exposure, sir. There is no immediate threat.
Commander.
Captain, may I speak to you alone?
Sir, it is standard procedure that the second officer accompany the awayteam.
Then I must assume your decision is related to the discovery on Earth of
Captain, there is no rational justification for this course.
It is possible, sir, that the events leading to my death will not occurfor years, even centuries.
I appreciate your concern, Captain, but, to employ an aphorism, onecannot cheat fate.
DATA : Go ahead. 
Acknowledged.
Captain, the results of my temporal analysis may be pertinent.
Geordi, it indicates a synchronic distortion in the areas emanating
DATA : Triolic waves.
DATA : A positive displacement of point zero zero four percent.
DATA : Commander, we might be able to
Manipulate the synchronic distortion.
DATA : Yes, we do.
It is built into my positronic decompiler. It will be necessary for me tojoin the away team, sir.
Sir.
Once I have adjusted the forcefield, I will no longer be visible,
No, sir. That will not be possible.
Adjusting the synchronic distortion. Point zero zero one. Point zero zerotwo.  Point zero zero three. Point zero zero four.
DATA : I have made visual contact. There are lifeforms here.
DATA : They're either unaware of me or choosing to ignore me. I am movingapproximately ten metres north of my starting position to observe more closely.
DATA : They range from two to three metres in height. Silver grey incolour. They have four limbs. No eyes or ears are noticeable. There is a singleorifice where a humanoid forehead would ordinarily be. They are reclinedagainst the rock face surrounding an apparatus of some sort approximately onepoint five metres in height.
DATA : It is releasing what appear to be energy fragments, which are theningested by the entities through the orifice. Perhaps some sort of nourishment.
DATA : The upper portion of the apparatus seems to be a holding facilityfor the energy segments. There are hundreds, perhaps thousands of thesefragments inside. I have resumed a northerly direction. There is no evidenceyet of humans.
DATA : I have encountered
DATA : Another lifeform. An ophidian. It seems to be restricted by aforcefield.
DATA : Two of the silver-grey entities are approaching it. They havereleased the forcefield.
DATA : I am reading a temporal distortion of massive proportions. Theophidian is cap  time-space continuum.
DATA : Caught in the after effect. I am attempting
Excuse me. Pardon me. I am searching for two individuals with anophidian. A snake.
That is unfortunate.
I am sorry, but I have no whiskey to give you.
I am sorry, but I have no form of legal tender.
I would be happy to do so, but I am presently in need of information.
Thank you for your advice, but I'm trying to find two individuals with asnake.
You are in need of medical attention. I will get a doctor.
Sir, I need temporary lodging.
I understand the source of your misperception. However, this is notsleepware and I do not have a missus.
I am a Frenchman.
I have no money.
But I am capable of performing significant tasks both mental andphysical. Perhaps your hotel would offer me a job.
Poker?
Excuse me, gentlemen.
I would like to join the game.
I am a Frenchman.
Alors, nous sommes presque frères. Je suis heureux de vous connaitre.
In a manner of speaking. It is a crystalline composite of silicon,beryllium, Carbon seventy, and
Gold.
I accept. 
To whom are you referring?
What was the source of your jocular reaction? What was it you foundhumorous?
It was not my intention to deceive.
Thank you.  It has been a pleasure.
It would be advisable to monitor that cough. I have read that there iscurrently a cholera epidemic in San Francisco.
Of course. The gratuity. Thank you for your assistance.
I have no need for companionship. However I do require some supplies.
I am an inventor.
Will this be enough?
You may retain the surplus for yourself.
Exactly.
Apology is not necessary.
Ow.
I believe I have overexerted myself.
Yes.
This is for your trouble.
I require a low intensity magnetic field core. I believe the iron mass ofthe anvil will provide that.
What do you think it is going to be?
That is a good guess.
Perhaps.
To what are you referring?
I believe I have given you an erroneous impression.
You have a ship?
You have had a considerable spectrum of occupations.
I believe your plan is a bit premature.
Thank you, Jack.
Good afternoon. I would like to speak to Guinan.
Data.
No.
I am a personal friend.
It is urgent that I speak to her.
That is an excellent idea. I will wait for them in there.
Guinan! Excuse me. I must speak to you immediately.
I am sorry for the disruption, but he would not believe me when I toldhim we were friends.
Data. Yes. We were on a ship together.
The Enterprise.
It is a starship.
Android. Artificial life form.
I was not sent by your father. Circumstances demand that I take you intomy confidence. I require your assistance.
I am from the twenty fourth century, where you and I serve aboard astarship.
Our ship encountered a species who appears to be threatening 19th century
At some future date I will be transported back to nineteenth century
Data. Yes. We were on a ship together. The Enterprise.
It is a starship.
I was not sent by your father. Our ship encountered a species who appearsto be threatening nineteenth century Earth.
Perhaps you could arrange for us to get in.
With permission to dig for the mine shaft.
I have full confidence in your persuasive abilities.
Strange. The transceiver assembly has been removed. Without it I will beunable to track the time shifts.
Clemens?
If you are correct, he must be warned. The device has been modified insuch a way that prolonged contact with human tissue would be highly toxic.
I am French, sir, not Swiss.
I do not believe I know Mister Whitley.
I am unfamiliar with the gentleman's name. I have spoken to severalpeople at that office.
As apparently you do, Mister Clemens.
In a sense. The time shift is a gearing system I have invented for thehorseless carriage.
I suggest we postpone our greetings for another occasion.
The aliens appear to be able to concentrate the distortion and direct itto a specific time and place.
I have located that cavern.
How now, spirit. Whither wander you?
It is all right.
Mister Clemens, it is imperative that we continue our mission.
Torpedoes. Phasing. Alien. I am processing a binary message entered intomy static memory by Captain Picard. Geordi, are we planning to fire on thealien habitat?
It is imperative that we do not. I will explain later.
The binary message left by the Captain is not entirely clear. He seemedto be concerned about the phase differential of our photon torpedoes. Thatfiring them might produce catastrophic effects.
If I am correct, we must modify our weapons so that the force of theexplosion is re-phased into the aliens' time continuum.
Sir?
For what, sir?
Commander, I am picking up massive triolic wave activity on the surface.
There are no human life signs.
No, sir, but triolic activity is increasing.
Sir, I am detecting a temporal distortion on the surface and human lifesigns.
Our scanners cannot penetrate the plasma streamer's distortion field.
No, sir. Ionic interference is too heavy.
DATA : Bridge to Captain Picard.
DATA : The away team is returning to the Enterprise, sir.
DATA : Aye, sir.
The analysis of the fragments is not yet complete.
The container does show evidence of residual ionisation. I believe yourhypothesis was correct. It was used to store high energy plasma.
Perhaps we should attempt to recreate their experiment to see whathappens when matter is beamed aboard under similar conditions.
Are you all right, Lieutenant?
Geordi. Lieutenant Barclay appears inordinately preoccupied with hisphysiological condition. I have seen him check his pulse rate, as well as hisvisual acuity several times over the last twenty minutes.
Structural reinforcement is at two hundred forty percent.
A standard analysis begins with a resonance frequency scan.
Initiating resonance sweep. Frequency range at three
That is correct. They appear to be quasi-energy microbes that existwithin the distortion field of the plasma streamer.
Normal spatial relationships are often distorted within the matterstream. Your perceptions may have been exaggerated.
The microbes exist simultaneously as both matter and energy. Thebiofilter cannot distinguish them from the matter stream.
The molecules would begin to emit nucleonic particles. We may be able toderive a pattern the computer would recognise.
Your pattern would degrade to the point where your signal would bepermanently lost.
Captain, sensors have located the transport ship. Two Rekag battlecruisers are flanking it.
The cruisers' weapons are powered up but sir, the Rekag ships are turningand heading out of sensor range.
We are within visual range of the transport, sir.
Sensors indicate damage to the Dorian's subspace emitter. Audiocommunication only.
Counsellor Troi has altered her appearance.
Captain, I have identified the signal. It is from the USS Jenolen, a
There are no stars or other stellar bodies listed on our navigationalcharts. However, sensors indicate the presence of an extremely stronggravitational source in this vicinity.
I am having difficulty scanning the object. It appears to beapproximately two hundred million kilometres in diameter.
The object's enormous mass is causing a great deal of gravimetricinterference. That might have prevented our sensors from detecting it before wedropped out of warp.
The object does fit the general parameters of Dyson's theory.
Possibly a great number of people, Commander. The interior surface areaof a sphere this size is the equivalent of more than two hundred and fiftymillion class M planets.
I have located the Jenolen, sir. It is impacted on the surface of thesphere.
There are no life signs. However, there are several small poweremanations, and life support is still functioning on minimal levels.
Sensor readings indicate the presence of a G-type star at the centre ofthe sphere. There also appears to be a class-M atmosphere clinging to theinterior surface.
Not as yet, sir. Our preliminary data suggests it is still capable ofsupporting life. We have been unable to find definite signs of currenthabitation.
Aye, sir.
I believe I may be of some assistance. Captain Scott is unaware of theexistence of synthehol.
Yes, sir. It is an alcohol substitute now being served aboard starships.
No, sir. I am an android. Lieutenant Commander Data.
I believe Guinan does keep a limited supply of non-syntheholic products.
It is  It is  It_is_green.
Commander, I believe I have found something on the sphere which could bea communications device. There's an antenna array approximately four hundredthousand kilometres south of our present position. It is emitting low intensitysubspace signals.
No, sir, not from our present orbit. The array is currently directed awayfrom us.
Sensors indicate that the large circle is a portal or airlock, possiblyleading to the interior of the sphere.
Some type of tractor beam has locked onto us.
The resonance frequency of the tractor beams is incompatible with ourpower systems. Warp and impulse engine relays have been overloaded. I amattempting to compensate.
Approximately ninety million kilometres from the star's photosphere. I amreading a great deal of surface instability. It may be
We will enter the sun's photosphere in three minutes.
Our flight path is changing. Right ten point seven degrees, sir.
Aye, sir.
The sphere appears to be abandoned. Sensors show that the star isextremely unstable. It is experiencing severe bursts of radiation and matterexpulsions.
I believe we triggered a series of automatic piloting beams designed toguide ships into the sphere.
It is a solar flare, Captain. Magnitude twelve, class B.
The star has entered a period of increased activity. Sensors indicatethat the solar flares will continue to grow. In three hours, our shields willno longer be sufficient to protect us, sir.
The interior surface area is over ten to the sixteenth square kilometres.
I will endeavour to speed up the process, sir.
With impulse engines operating at sixty percent power, it will take oneminute and forty seconds.
We are within transporter range.
Mister Scott.
The modification would increase our sensor efficiency and imagingresolution by twenty five percent or more.
Commander, I would like to remind you about my poetry reading thisafternoon.
Then we sat on the sand for some time and observed
That poem was written in anapaestic tetrameter. For my ninth poem,
Throughout the ages, from Keats to Jorkemo, poets have composed odes toindividuals who have had a profound effect on their lives. In keeping with thattradition, I have written my next poem in honour of my cat. I call it Ode to
Commander, you have anticipated my denouement. However, the sentiment isappreciated. I will continue.
Geordi, active scanner output has increased by twenty six percent.
Geordi, may I make a personal inquiry? It concerns my poetry reading.
I noticed that many spectators seemed distracted during my presentation.
Thank you. And?
Did it evoke an emotional response?
Your hesitation suggests you are trying to protect my feelings. However,since I have none, I would prefer you to be honest. An artist's growth dependsupon accurate feedback.
Then I did not succeed in my efforts.
I am reading a massive EPS explosion.
I am attempting to localise it. It is Cargo bay four.
The field imbalance has subsided.
What is it?
Are you all right, Geordi?
I will run the integrity scan.
I have just started the scan. Did you not go to Sickbay?
That is not possible. My internal chronometer indicates you have beengone for exactly one minute, fifteen seconds.
Computer, what is the time, please?
You are correct. Ninety two minutes, seventeen seconds have passed sinceyou left the room.
I have no memory of events during that period. When we are finished here,
Sensors are functioning normally. They are detecting a subspace particleemission originating from within this room.
The emission is emanating from this direction. Geordi.
The structure of the bulkhead has been altered on a subatomic level. Themetal itself is in a state of quasi-molecular flux.
It appears to be composed of spatially inverted tetryon particles. Webelieve they are emanating from a tertiary subspace manifold.
I have completed my self diagnostic, and have confirmed that I was notaboard the Enterprise for ninety minutes seventeen seconds yesterday afternoon.
Whenever I am on the ship, the warp field leaves an electromagneticsignal on my internal servo-fluid system. Between the period of twelve fiftyfour and fourteen twenty six hours that signature is missing.
It appears to be the beginnings of a spatial rupture.
At the rate the rupture is expanding, we will soon be in danger of hullbreach.
No, sir. The spatial rupture is creating severe nucleonic interference.
Tetryon particles have a random momentum. Our sensors cannot track them,sir.
DATA : The rupture has expanded another four point two percent.
Without further reinforcement, containment field integrity will fail inapproximately fourteen minutes.
At the present rate, containment failure will occur in approximately nineminutes.
Captain, the containment field is beginning to fluctuate. Failureanticipated in
DATA : Three minutes, eleven seconds.
Data to Engineering. The graviton pulse is having an effect. Tetryonemissions have decreased by nineteen percent.
Captain, additional subharmonics have appeared. They are reinforcing thetetryon emissions. They appear to be counter-acting the graviton pulse.
DATA : The rupture is beginning to expand again, sir.
Tetryon emissions continue to increase. The rupture is still expanding.
DATA : Hull breach is imminent.
The rupture is beginning to close, sir.
DATA : The rupture is eighty six percent closed.
Based on the information gathered by Commander Riker's tricorder, we havedetermined that the molecular structure of the alien life forms is solanogen-based.
The tricorder readings indicate they created a small pocket of ouruniverse in their laboratory to keep those they abducted alive.
No sir. We were unable to track it once it left the cargo bay.
Possibly they were simply curious. Explorers like ourselves.
Imagination is not necessary. The scale is readily quantifiable. We arepresently generating twelve point seven five billion gigawatts per
Temperature in the reaction chamber has increased by forty seven percent.
Temperature increase is at one hundred six percent and rising.
Plasma inductors are not responding.
Temperature in the reaction chamber has returned to normal.
Yes, Captain.
It is not consistent with what we know of them, sir.
Aye, sir.
Captain, message coming in from Tagra Four.
Captain?
I have some information regarding Amanda Rogers' parents. Recordsindicate that they died in Topeka, Kansas. Their home was destroyed during atornado.
Unknown, sir. The bodies were found in the rubble after the storm hadpassed.
Aye, sir.
Captain.
I have further information regarding the tornado that killed Amanda
It was unusually compact, yet extremely powerful. Its recorded windvelocity was characteristic of a funnel three times its size.
Aye, sir.
If we can use phase buffers we may be able to devise a mechanism that canbe integrated into the present system while it is in operation.
Captain, I am reading a massive energy fluctuation in the planet'satmosphere.
Atmospheric contaminants have dropped to less than one part per trillion.
Almost. It is being stored in shuttlebay two. Sir.
We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our readingsare being disrupted.
Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there is noevidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the interference.
Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding.
Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down to sixtyseven percent.
I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are beingboarded, sir.
In theory, my neural network should be able to sustain key systems untilprimary control is restored.
Geordi, I have noticed that you have not shaved. Are you attempting togrow another beard?
As is the case with many natural growth processes, it is difficult toenvision the end product based on an intermediate stage.
One moment.
I do not understand. You are constantly working on similar electronicsystems, yet their appearances do not disturb you.
Thank you, Geordi. Nor are you just another biological organism.
Yes. Establishing computer linkup. Interface complete.
I am now attempting to access the long range sensor array.
I will perform a routine maintenance check on the starboard inertialdamping system.
Initiating gravitational
There appears to be an energy fluctuation in my neural net. I amdisconnecting my interface to the computer. Interface deactivated.
I have experienced a brief power surge in my positronic subprocessor. But
Geordi, perhaps this problem is related to our interface experiment.
And I will perform a self-diagnostic.
DATA-FRANK: Where's my boy?
DATA-FRANK: No. He's more valuable to us alive.
Feline supplement one hundred twenty seven. Spot, I have formulated a newmixture of foods specifically designed for your highly selective tastes.
I find it extremely difficult to predict what you will find acceptable.
Spot, you are disrupting my ability to work.
Vamoose, you little varmint.
DATA-FRANK: Howdy, Sheriff.
DATA-FRANK: The name is Frank Hollander. What are you smiling at?
DATA-FRANK: My boy.
DATA-FRANK: Well then, we'll just have to work something out. Is there anythingyou want in exchange for my boy?
DATA-FRANK: Is that so? Is that so? What about your deputy?
DATA-FRANK: Not so fast.
DATA-FRANK: I ain't in the mood for games, Sheriff.
DATA-FRANK: I wouldn't walk out that door if I was you, Sheriff.
DATA-ELI: Oh, now isn't that a shame? Poor Sheriff's been injured. What's thematter? Was my pa a little too rough on you?
DATA-ELI: What?
DATA-ELI: Temper, temper, Sheriff. My pa ain't going to like if I come home allbruised.
When the interface malfunction occurred, subroutine C forty seven wasreplaced by elements from my personal programming.
That would explain why your music composition programme began playing The
I have been formulating nutritional supplements for Spot.
We are currently attempting to isolate the corrupt circuit pathways. Ireckon the process should take less then two hours.
I said the process should take less than two hours.
According to my memory log, I did not use those words. Ya'll must bemistaken.
Did whut?
DATA-ELI: Can I help you with somethin?
DATA-FRANK: I've came to see my boy.
DATA-FRANK: Better take a good look at that gun, Sheriff. You might be seeingit again real soon.
DATA-ELI: Pa?
DATA-FRANK: Eli! How are they treating you, boy?
DATA-ELI: Real bad, pa. They ain't fed me since I got here and the Sheriff'sbeen roughin up on me somethin fierce.
DATA-FRANK: Don't you worry, boy. The Sheriff's going to pay. Who's thestranger?
DATA-ELI: Don't know. She ain't said her name. But she's in cahoots with the
DATA-FRANK: You sit tight, boy. I'll have you home in time for supper. I'mgoing to give you one more opportunity, Sheriff, to avoid a ugly situation.
DATA-FRANK: I thought you might have a change of heart. Meet me in two hours.
Howdy, Commander.
Well, we figure part of my memory structure  was replaced withinformation from the computer's recreational data base.
You got it, partner.
Commander. You just sit tight. We'll have this all fixed up in time forsupper.
DATA-FRANK: Eli, get down!
DATA-MEXICAN: Senor Frank!
DATA-FRANK: Go ahead. Shoot me.
DATA-FRANK: Let's go.
DATA-ANNIE: Sheriff! You're as handy with a shooting iron as you are with awoman's heart.
DATA : Enterprise to Commander La Forge.
I am reading significant power fluctuations from the station core. Pleasereport.
DATA : Do you require assistance?
DATA : Enterprise to La Forge. What is your situation?
Commander La Forge, please report.
How were you able to accomplish the repair so quickly?
Energise.
Welcome to the Enterprise, Doctor. I am Lieutenant Commander Data.
And I have studied your design for the particle fountain. I find theconcept to be highly innovative.
I am curious how you were able to repair the power grid so quickly.
Actually, that is no longer the case. I have recently converted myinterlink sequencer to asynchronous operation, which removed the performanceconstraint.
The interlink sequencer is now bi-directional. It compensates for theasynchronous mode distortion arising from the resonant field.
Exocomps?
The correct procedure would be to adjust the converter.
A mode stabiliser.
You have incorporated a micro-replication system into the device in orderto fashion tools.
So in a sense, they are learning.
Exocomps are highly sophisticated devices, sir. If they perform up toexpectation, their potential to advance this project is considerable.
Thank you, Doctor. I welcome the opportunity.
I agree, Doctor.
I have successfully completed fourteen separate tasks with this exocompin the past hour. I estimate it would take two people nine hours to completethe same tasks. I would characterise the unit's performance as excellent.
I am confident they will. Commander La Forge is especially
It is not accepting your commands.
Doctor.
Geordi, the interface circuitry which links the exocomp to the controlpad is completely burned out.
No.
Interesting. The number of new circuit pathways has increased by sixhundred thirty two percent.
Doctor, the new pathways do not appear to be interfering with theoriginal circuitry.
Apparently there was a micro-fracture in the conduit wall. The fault didnot register on our instruments.
Geordi, are you implying the exocomp exhibited some form of self-preservation?
Computer perform a level one diagnostic of the exocomp's command module.
How can that be, if the interface circuitry is burned out?
Curious. Computer, access the exocomp's sensor logs. Confirm that therewas a failure of the interface circuitry within the last twelve hours.
How and when was it repaired?
Why would the exocomp burn out its own interface circuitry and repair ittwo hours later?
Doctor, are you injured?
Doctor, what is the definition of life?
I am searching for a definition that will allow me to test an hypothesis.
And you suggest that anything which exhibits these characteristics isconsidered alive?
What about fire?
Yes. It consumes fuel to produce energy, it grows, it creates offspring.
And what about me? I do not grow. I do not reproduce. I am considered tobe alive.
I wonder if that is so.
I am curious as to what transpired between the moment when I was nothingmore than an assemblage of parts in Doctor Soong's laboratory, and the nextmoment, when I became alive. What was it that endowed me with life?
Are you saying the question cannot be answered?
I believe I understand, Doctor.
On the contrary, you have been a great deal of help. Thank you.
Doctor, I must ask you to stop using the exocomps.
No. It is not that. I have reason to believe the exocomps are alive.
Sir, when the exocomp left the access tunnel prior to the explosion, itmay have been attempting to save itself from destruction.
Yes. When you attempted to override the exocomp and send it back into thetunnel, it responded by deliberately burning out its control interface.
The computer diagnostic showed that the exocomp disabled its owninterface.
However, two hours later, when it was aboard the Enterprise and no longerin danger, it repaired itself. I believe the exocomp was protecting itself. Andif that is true, it has demonstrated an awareness of its environment, and anability to adapt to that environment.
Doctor, there is a big difference between you and a virus, but both arealive.
Thank you, sir. And until we have a definitive answer, I believe it wouldbe inappropriate to exploit the exocomps as labourers.
Yes.
We have created a small conduit breach in this tube. The exocomp wouldnormally require several minutes to complete a repair of this type. Once itenters the tube, it will find that a plasma cascade failure is in progress.
Thank you for your help, Doctor.
As do I, sir. Thank you.
That is true.
I have completed thirty four additional tests and the results have beenthe same in each of them. Perhaps I was wrong in suspecting the exocomp wasalive.
You said earlier that I am unique. If so, then I am alone in theuniverse. When I began investigating the exocomps, I realised I might beencountering a progenitor of myself. Suddenly the possibility exists that I wasno longer alone. For that reason, I. The exocomp has returned.
In the previous thirty four trials, I brought it back once the simulatedfailure occurred. This time we were talking, and I neglected to do that.
Do not apologise, Doctor. I believe we have discovered somethingsignificant.
The exocomp has replicated a different tool. That is not the molecularfuser it had when it entered the Jefferies tube. Doctor, the exocomp not onlycompleted the repairs, it also deactivated the overload signal.
It was, and the exocomp must have realised that. It saw that there was noreal danger and completed the repairs.
I see no other possible explanation.
Commander, the particle fountain is continuing to surge. At the presentrate, the radiation in the station core will reach fatal levels in twenty threeminutes.
A force field was activated on the station a few moments ago. It ispossible that Commander La Forge has established a low intensity deflectorfield.
No, sir. My readings indicate that it will fail in approximately twentytwo minutes.
I estimate that it would take a minimum of sixty five minutes to properlyconfigure the torpedo.
Commander. I must object to that plan.
Doctor Crusher and I discovered that the exocomp did not fail the test.
Commander, if I am correct, the exocomps will not allow themselves to bedestroyed. They have a sense of survival, and they will shut down before theywill comply with the order.
Commander, that will not be necessary. The transporter is notmalfunctioning. I have locked out the controls.
I cannot do that, sir.
That is your prerogative, sir. Under Starfleet regulations, directinsubordination is a court martial offence. But I will not release thetransporter.
Commander, please do not think this is an arbitrary decision. I haveconsidered the ramifications of my actions carefully, and I do not believe itis justifiable to sacrifice one life form for another.
It is true I am acting on my personal beliefs, but I do not see how I cando otherwise.
I have observed that humans often base their judgments on what isreferred to as instinct or intuition. Because I am a machine, I lack thatparticular ability. However it may be possible that I have insight into othermachines that humans lack.
Then let me offer an alternative. Transport me to the station, I willattempt a complete manual shut down of the particle stream.
Commander, if I give my life to save my fellow officers, that is mychoice. The exocomps no longer have a choice.
That sounds reasonable, sir. If they choose to go, I would be willing torelease the transporter lock out.
If the exocomps do not shut down after I have programmed them, we mayassume they are willing to go.
They seem to be re-programming the commands I have entered.
Clearly, they unwilling to be transported into the stream for detonation,although they may have an alternate solution.
No, Doctor, but they do have superior experience. During their service,they have interfaced with every part of the station core, something none of ushas done, including yourself. They may have another way to control the particlesurge.
Those appear to be power taps.
Can you lock on to the exocomps?
It was the only way to save the other two.
Thank you, Doctor. I wish your work on the particle fountain had beenmore successful. Perhaps the exocomps will help you to reconstruct it.
Doctor.
Yes, sir. I thought you might want to know why I would be willing to riskyour life for several small machines.
No, sir, it was not. When my status as a living being was in question,you fought to protect my rights, and for that I will always be grateful. Theexocomps had no such advocate. If I had not acted in their behalf, they wouldhave been destroyed. I could not allow that to happen, sir.
He is the commanding officer of the Cairo.
Sir, the transfer interface was not designed for that configuration. Itwill take seven hours to make those changes.
We will arrive in fifty one hours, thirty two minutes, sir.
That is an attainable goal, but it will require realigning the warp coiland taking the secondary distribution grid offline.
I believe that is also an attainable goal. If we utilise the entire
Captain on the Bridge.
Captain on the Bridge.
It is possible that the Cardassians were specifically interested incapturing Captain Picard.
The metagenic weapon they were supposedly developing used a theta-bandsubspace delivery system. Captain Picard is one of only three Starfleet
If your theory is correct, the Cardassians may be planning an attacksomewhere in this sector.
Aye, sir. Set course three five zero mark two one five and engage at warpeight point five.
In seventeen hours their hull degradation will reach dangerous levels.
it was then that I began to suspect that your brother did not die by hisown hand. That he was, in fact, murdered.
That was the first clue, Watson. The vial contained strychnine, which asyou well know induces violent muscular spasms. It is difficult to imagine thatsomeone in the throes of so gruesome a death could have held on to so delicatea container without shattering it.
Exactly! The vial was placed in his hand after he died.
The cigar, of course.
Upon closer inspection of the room where your brother was found, Idiscovered a fresh burn mark on the carpet. Further analysis of the ashrevealed that the cigar was laced with strychnine.
With practice, handwriting can be forged. It takes a trained eye tonotice certain discrepancies. For example, whether someone is right or lefthanded!
Your brother was right handed! The alleged suicide note was written by aleft handed individual such as yourself!
Curious. There seems to be a problem in the holodeck's spatialorientation systems.
Sherlock Holmes programme three A has demonstrated some very curiousanomalies.
Since both planets are gas giants, neither possesses a solid surface.
Data to Security. Send two officers to holodeck three.
This contradicts everything we know about holodeck physics.
There is also no way of knowing if the Professor's ability to exist offthe holodeck is permanent. It may be unwise to consider creating a secondindividual while this uncertainty exists.
Within the next five hours, sir.
Command functions are being rerouted, sir.
Unknown, sir.
Aye, sir.
Perhaps we should consider the transporter system. It uses many of thesame principles as the holodeck. Both, for example, are capable of convertingenergy into matter.
However, if it were possible to lock onto the object, it mightrematerialise with the same molecular cohesion as conventional matter.
Set the pattern enhancers around whatever object you wish to transport. Iwill proceed to the transporter room and begin modifications.
Go ahead, Lieutenant.
Modifications are complete.
DATA : Stand by.
Activating pattern enhancers. Energising. I am having difficultyestablishing a pattern lock.  Boost the confinement beam,please. Pattern lock established.
DATA : Energising.
No. It lost its cohesion as soon as the transporter cycle was complete.
DATA : Agreed. However, we may be able to learn something from the attempt.
Computer, display the transport logs for the sequence just completed.  Computer, what is being displayed here?
That is the correct log. However, no information
DATA : Is being presented.
DATA : It is almost as if
Our attempt to transport the chair never occurred.
Geordi.
Captain, I have determined how Moriarty was able to leave the holodeck.
Through deduction, sir. Lieutenant Barclay and I tried to transport asimulated object off the holodeck, something that has never been attempted.
Then I saw you working the PADD with your left hand. Commander La Forgeis right handed, sir. A similar malfunction occurred in the Sherlock Holmesprogramme I was running before Moriarty first appeared.
Moriarty appears to have programmed the holodeck to accept only hiscommands.
You and I are real, sir, as is Lieutenant Barclay. We entered theholodeck together when we first went to see Moriarty.
I believe that is the case, sir.
You may have inadvertently given Professor Moriarty the means of gainingcontrol of the real Enterprise.
Less than three hours.
Did Moriarty release the voice commands, Captain?
When he was attempting to contact the real Bridge, he was in factspeaking to a simulation.
In a way, Doctor. However, there is no physicality. The programme iscontinuous but only within the computer's circuitry.
Commander Morag, we have discovered that the encrypted message bank onthe station has been tampered with. Our analysis indicates that twenty sevenpriority Starfleet messages are missing.
Your DNA was also found on the message control module.
There is no sign of the freighter, sir. We are the only ship in the area.
Sensors indicate no other ships within three light years.
It appears to be the remains of a ship. My analysis indicates that it wasan Antares class freighter.
I do not believe so, sir. That would not be consistent with the debrispattern. However, sensors indicate extremely high levels of residualantiprotons.
Correct. Based on the antiproton decay, I would estimate the incidentoccurred within the last four point three hours.
Sensors are picking up a polarised magnetic distortion to our port side.
The distortion is extremely weak, sir. It appears to be moving slowly. Itis gone, sir.
The distortion no longer registers on our instruments.
Unknown, sir. Our understanding of Romulan technology is still limited.
The distortion has reappeared, sir, bearing three three seven mark ten.
It has disappeared once again, sir. I believe it may have been coming toa halt.
Sir, the magnetic distortion has reappeared.
It appears to be moving toward us, closing slowly. Its bearing indicatesa possible collision course.
I am unable to make a precise measurement. However I would estimateimpact within ninety seconds.
Time to impact approximately sixty seconds.
Are you feeling all right?
Captain Thomas Halloway. Perhaps I should escort you to Sickbay.
DATA : Senior officers, please report to the Captain's Ready room.
Commander, I am reading a minor power drain in the starboard EPS conduit.
The problem's originating in Sickbay. There has been an unauthorizedaccess into the computer's bio-imaging systems.
Aye, sir.
Excuse me. Do you have authorisation to work in this area?
I am sorry, but use of sickbay equipment is limited to ship's medicalpersonnel.
Data.
Yes.
I would be happy to do so. However, I must ask you to stop yourexperiment.
What type of device is this?
It appears to employ plasma inputs.
I suggest we take it to Engineering and run a complete circuit-pathwaydiagnostic.
If we transfer twenty megajoules of energy from the dilithium chamberinto the plasma inputs, it should be sufficient to activate the device.
Certainly.
I can control the rate of my follicle replenishment. However, I have notyet had a reason to modify the length of my hair. Why do you ask?
Power conduits are ready. Is something wrong, Doctor?
Yes. I do have a functional respiration system. However, its purpose isto maintain thermal control of my internal systems. I am, in fact, capable offunctioning for extended periods in a vacuum.
My circulatory system not only produces bio-chemical lubricants, itregulates micro-hydraulic power. Most people are interested in my extraordinaryabilities. How fast I can compute, my memory capacity, how long I will live. Noone has ever asked me if my hair will grow, or noticed that I can breathe.
Power connections are complete.
Of course. We are ready, Geordi.
Transient response is normal.
I believe so. What has happened?
That cannot be possible. I have a memory record for that period of time.
My internal diagnostic indicates that my memory systems are functioningwithin normal parameters. For the forty seven seconds that I was inactive,there is no record of cognitive activity.
That cannot be. The image I saw was of Doctor Soong as a young man. I didnot encounter him until much later in his life. There appears to be no rationalexplanation for my experience.
How so?
I am not capable of either of those functions.
At present, I cannot.
I am sorry to bother you, but I have a question of a personal nature. Doyou have a moment?
I have heard you mention that you once experienced a vision.
I understand it involves deep meditation in the lava caves of No'Mat.
I have recently had an unusual experience, which might be described as avision.
An accident in Engineering shut down my cognitive functions for a shortperiod of time, yet I seemed to remain conscious. I saw my father.
If it was a vision, I do not know how to proceed.
But I am not looking for my father.
Thank you, Worf.
I am sorry to disturb you, sir.
I require your advice. I have come to an impasse regarding my recentunexplained experience.
I have analysed over four thousand different religious and philosophicalsystems, as well as over two hundred psychological schools of thought, in aneffort to understand what happened.
I have been unable to find a single interpretation of the images I sawduring the time I was shut down. The hammer, for instance, has severalmeanings. The Klingon culture views the hammer as a symbol of power. However,the Taqua tribe of Nagor sees it as an icon of hearth and home. The Ferengisview it as a sign of sexual prowess.
The interpretation of visions and other metaphysical experiences arealmost always culturally derived, and I have no culture of my own.
I believe I understand, sir. Thank you.
Come in.
I am painting.
I have created twenty three individual illustrations in the past sixhours, twenty seven minutes. I believe you could say I have been inspired.
I have done as Captain Picard suggested. I have tried to explore theimages.
I am not certain. I began by painting the image of the blacksmith. Then Ipainted the corridor. After that, the anvil, the hammer, and Doctor Soong'sface. The thought then occurred to me that I should paint smoke.
I cannot explain it. It is not an image I saw during my vision.
Perhaps. After I painted the smoke, it then occurred to me to paint abird's wing. I then drew an entire bird. A flock of birds flying in formation.
I do not know how much longer my vision would have continued had I notbeen reactivated.
I am aware of the risks involved. But I can think of no other way toinvestigate my experience. Will you help?
I will prepare the power transfer.
Agreed.
The bird did not appear in my original experience. This vision isdifferent.
What is happening, Father?
We are on the Bridge of the Enterprise. My cat is present, my pottedplant, and my paintings.
I do not understand.
What type of journey?
I do not understand.
The images I saw during the time I was shut down were generated by aseries of previously dormant circuits in my neural net. I believe Doctor Soongincorporated those circuits into my base programming, intending to activatethem when I reached a certain level of development.
That is correct.
I plan to shut down my cognitive functions for a brief period each day. Ihope to generate new internal visions.
An accurate analogy.
Of course not.
Captain.
It has been quite a day, has it not?
However, a change of routine is often invigorating and can be a welcomediversion after a long assignment.
I understand that Arkaria has some very interesting weather patterns.
Yes, sir. I am attempting to fill a silent moment with non-relevantconversation.
Yes, sir. I have found that humans often use small talk during awkwardmoments. Therefore, I have written a new subroutine for that purpose. How did Ido?
Thank you, sir. I will.
It is very good to see you both again. Beverly. May I call you Beverly?
Hmm. Yes. I find it fascinating that your family chose to drop the prefix
Perhaps the recent Arkarian trend toward a more egalitarian society ispartly responsible, eh?
As a matter of fact, I find it oddly amusing.
There are several cultures in this sector with extremely similaretymological histories. For example
The pleasure is mine, Hutch. I have been meaning to compliment you on yourchoice of colours here.
I can well imagine. The light in this room would make colour selectionexceptionally problematic.
Yes, but Tyrellian laser art is very similar in both form and composition.
Really? Did you know that there are currently five Tyrellians servingaboard the Enterprise.
I was aware of that. But are you aware that Tyrellia is one of seven knownplanets with no atmosphere whatsoever.
It is possible that Geordi upset their timetable when he saw the hiddenweapons.
If they do not have a plan for this contingency, we may have theinitiative.
Perhaps we can use the visor as a weapon. If the optical transducer weremodified, we might be able to generate a hypersonic pulse.
That was a perimeter warning from the Remmler Array. A small ship isapproaching. I believe Mister Orton has dropped his defence shields.
I will try, sir.
DATA : Data to Captain Picard. Do you read me, sir?
Are you all right, Captain?
Sir, an unidentified
Scout ship has just beamed someone off the Enterprise.
DATA : Do you know anything about it?
Actually, good morning, sir. Ship status is
Aye, sir.
I'm sorry, sir, but Stellar Cartography has requested a communicationsblackout while they run an experiment.
Another three hours twenty two minutes, sir. I can override it ifnecessary.
Aye, sir.
Captain, I would like to remind you of our concert this evening in Ten
Thank you.
I noticed that the applause this evening exceeded average decibel levels.
Excuse me. I have not yet congratulated Ensign Cheney.
Is there a problem, Geordi?
Music? I do not hear anything.
Thermal deflectors generate a field approximately four hundred metreswide. We would need to cross-connect six units and align them so the fieldsoverlap.
Captain, I have completed the spectral evaluation of the outer shell. Oursurvey of this protostar is complete.
At our present speed, we will arrive at the Atalia system in thirty sevenhours.
I have located the shuttle. It is under attack.
Professor Galen is still inside his vessel, sir. His vital signs arebarely registering.
When he was attacked, Professor Galen began to protect certain files inhis computer memory.
They could mean anything. Unless we can narrow the parameters of thesearch, it would be almost impossible for the computer to identify the patternwith any accuracy.
Yes, sir. The logs indicate Professor Galen visited an unexplored starsystem, Ruah Four.
Four days at warp six, sir.
Ruah Four is a class-M planet. Sixty seven percent of its surface iscovered with water. Its landmass contains multiple animal species, including agenus of proto-hominids.
There is nothing to indicate former occupancy by even a primitive culture,sir.
The Indri system was first identified by Federation vessels nearly sixtyyears ago. The eighth planet is L-class. It is covered by deciduous vegetation,unexplored, with no apparent evidence of civilisations, either present or past.
Sensors are picking up severe atmospheric fluctuations on the planet.
All life on the planet is being destroyed, sir.
If we narrow the search parameters to the biological database, it mightincrease the chances of the computer finding a match.
The genetic information must have been incorporated into the earliestlifeforms on these planets, and then passed down through each generation.
Seventeen, sir.
DATA : Aye, sir.
We are approaching the Loren system.
We are now entering orbit.
Captain.
Captain.
The computer is processing the data. I will be notified as soon as thereis any information.
I am familiar with many Klingon rituals, including the B'aht Qul.
My upper spinal support is a polyalloy designed to withstand extremestress. My skull is composed of cortenide and duranium.
You are attempting to bribe me.
You suggested a plan that would work to your advantage, one that I wouldbe capable of executing. You then implied a reward. Clearly you were
The computer has completed its analysis.
The star is in sector two one four five nine. The Rahm Izad system.
I am scanning all seven planets of the Vilmoran system. None appears tosupport life.
Correction. The second planet shows evidence of an ancient ocean, now dry.
Yes, and it still may, in a limited fashion not detectable by our longrange sensors.
I am reading a small pocket of vegetative life. A primitive lichen growingin a fossilised seabed.
Most humanoids have the potential to be irrational. Perhaps you shouldattempt to access that part of your psyche.
You're becoming agitated.
I can see we have a lot of work to do.
Perhaps we should continue this discussion next week
You're starting to sound angry again. Maybe you need another treatment.
You're becoming agitated.
I can see we have a lot of work to do.
Commander, I must compliment you on your performance this evening.
Your unexpected choice to improvise was an effective method of drawingthe audience into the plight of your character. You gave a truly realisticinterpretation of multi-infarct dementia.
Commander.
Commander, are you all right?
Captain, the shuttle has been launched.
External temperature is zero point nine million Kelvins and rising.
Outside temperature is rising rapidly. One point seven million Kelvins.
Radiation levels outside the shuttle are nearing fourteen thousand rads.
Sensors indicate an increased level of baryon particles in the cabin.
Baryon levels are continuing to rise, sir.
The shuttle is emerging from the corona, sir.
The flow regulator is functioning properly.
Yes, Doctor.
I am unable to locate any malfunction. All systems are operatingaccording to your design specifications.
Perhaps there was an unexpected interaction between the solar radiationand the metaphasic shield.
I am running additional diagnostics to make certain there was nopermanent radiation damage to the shuttlecraft hull.
There was no evidence to suggest sabotage.
The system interlocks prevent access to the circuitry unless the shieldemitter is active. Any attempt to sabotage the device would have to be madewhile the shield was in operation.
That is correct. It seems unlikely that Jo'Bril would perform sabotagewhich would result in his own death.
A phased ionic pulse beamed directly into the metaphasic projectionmatrix would result in a temporary system malfunction.
Such a pulse could be initiated from the lateral sensor arrays, sciencelabs one, four, and sixteen, or any of the bridge science stations.
A tetryon field would be formed briefly in the cabin, temporarilydisrupting the metaphasic shield.
Captain, an unscheduled launch is taking place in Shuttlebay two.
Bearing two seven one mark four, sir. She is headed into the sun'scorona.
Sir, the shuttle is entering the corona.
Captain, there is no indication of debris. However, the subspace signalindicates a warp engine breach.
Good morning, Commander.
I found it extremely interesting. The lateral sensor arrays ran threeseparate spectral analyses of the Alawanir Nebula on three distinctfrequencies.
I will have the report sent to you, sir. We are still on course for the
Yes, sir. I was not informed of any change in the duty roster.
The appearance of Kahless in the lava caves is consistent with thestories found in the Klingon sacred texts.
Lieutenant? May I ask a question? In the absence of empirical data, howwill you determine whether or not this is the real Kahless?
Faith? Then you do believe Kahless may have supernatural attributes? Asan android, I am unable to accept that which cannot be proven through rationalmeans. I would appreciate hearing your insights on this matter.
They have been sitting here for three hours seventeen minutes. Theyrefuse to transport back to the ship with the rest of Gowron's men. Theyinsisted on waiting here until they see Kahless again. Their faith appears tobe unaffected by his inability to defeat Gowron. They still believe.
Does that mean you no longer believe this is the real Kahless?
I am curious. Do you still think the real Kahless will return someday? Orhas this experience only deepened the spiritual crisis which originally sentyou to Boreth?
I understand your dilemma. I once had what could be considered a crisisof the spirit.
Yes. The Starfleet officers who first activated me on Omicron Theta toldme I was an android, nothing more than a sophisticated machine with human form.
I made a leap of faith.
DATA : Data to Commander Riker.
DATA : Commander, you are needed on the Bridge.
Yes, sir. It appears we will be able to transport to the surface soonerthan anticipated.
No, sir. Using the Potemkin's transport logs from the originalevacuation, Commander La Forge and I were able to modify the transporters.
The transporters are considerably more efficient than those used on the
Ninety seven minutes, sir.
Twenty six minutes. After that, the distortion field will re-phase.
The planet's proximity to its sun will create two additional transportwindows in the next three days.
It will have to be, sir. The next transport window will not occur foranother eight years, when the planet's orbit will bring it close enough to thesun to de-phase the distortion field.
Aye, sir.
Commander.
Commander, someone is approaching. A humanoid. Forty metres due east andclosing.
May I ask how you got here?
Why did you not return to the Potemkin with the others?
An interesting approach. He must have been planning to reintegrate thetwo patterns in the transport buffer.
Many of its components have been removed. Apparently Lieutenant Rikerused them to keep the station's radiation shield operational.
We have less than three minutes left.
The game is five card draw, no limit. Ante, please.
Lieutenant?
Mister Worf?
Commander.
Dealer takes two. You control the bet, Lieutenant.
I will call.
Dealer folds.
Lieutenant, I am curious about something. If you met a double ofyourself, would you have difficulty interacting with him?
Why?
But Commander Riker and Lieutenant Riker are. Yet they seem to havetrouble getting along with each another. I have found that humans value theiruniqueness, that sense that they are different from every one else. Theexistence of a double would preclude that feeling. Could that be the source ofthe friction?
They have restored the servo link to the core. We can begin downloadingthe database.
Computer activate automatic helm control.
Did you help him with his research, Counsellor?
I thought it was a topic you were interested in.
I have a memory record of the entire lecture, Counsellor. I can repeatthe portions you missed, if you
It was not painful?
My memory record does not indicate a pause or disruption during that timeperiod. My internal chronometer and the ship's computer are both perfectlysynchronised. There does not appear to be a temporal discrepancy.
You were motionless for three minutes eleven seconds.
Aye, sir.
DATA : Captain, may I see you?
The Enterprise is not responding to our hails.
No, sir.
Aye, sir.
We have an engine failure warning in the
Attitude control has been restored.
Geordi, I believe I have an explanation. According to the plasmaconversion sensor, the starboard engine has been in continuous operation forforty seven days.
Captain, I am detecting a temporal disturbance intersecting the table. Itappears that within the disturbance, time is moving at an accelerated rate,approximately fifty times faster than normal. The disturbance is spherical inshape. It is extending outward from the hull approximately seventeen metresfrom the ship.
It does not appear to be affected.
Course plotted. Adjust pitch to twenty seven point three degrees. Setheading one eight zero
DATA : Mark zero.
DATA : We are clearing the phenomenon.
All stop.
There is another temporal disturbance directly behind us.
Within each disturbance it appears that time is moving at a differentrate.
The fragmentation effect continues along a heading of two seven zero markone five.
The fragmentation effect is increasing.
The Enterprise and the warbird both appear to be trapped within one ofthe temporal fragments.
Sensors cannot penetrate the subspace field. I am unable to scan withinthe vessels.
It is impossible to tell from a visual inspection. However, it appears tobe focused on the warbird's Engineering section.
That would be inadvisable, sir. In each of the three instances we cameinto contact with one of the temporal fragments, we were integrated into itstime frame.
The emergency transporter armbands contain a type seven phasediscriminator. It should be possible to reconfigure their subspace emitters.
I will attempt to narrow the field, sir.
Counsellor?
Captain, the equipment is no longer functioning. However, the informationcurrently displayed indicates that there was a massive power surge in
DATA : Data to Captain Picard.
DATA : Please come to Engineering immediately. It is urgent.
Captain, I believe I have found the cause of the power surge. There is awarp core breach in progress.
It is the flashpoint of a warp core explosion. And it is expanding.
We were incorrect, sir. I have determined that time is moving forward atan infinitesimal rate.
Our initial conclusion was based on our observations of the crew. A warpcore breach moves at a much faster rate. The motion of the cloud is within myvisual detection threshold. At its current expansion rate, it will consume the
It is no longer a question of stopping it, sir. The explosion has alreadyoccurred. The fact that it is moving slowly changes nothing.
No. However, the console displays indicate a power transfer in progressbetween the Enterprise and the Romulan ship at the moment time decelerated.
Perhaps we should go aboard the Romulan ship. The answer to that questionmay
Captain?
In much the same way deep sea divers experience nitrogen narcosis, youexperienced a form of temporal narcosis.
This is highly unusual. The crew is not at battle stations. The ship ison evacuation alert.
Perhaps the warbird was trying to destroy the Enterprise.
Geordi, the engine core is completely inactive.
It appears to be a highly focused aperture in the space-time continuum.
I am not certain. They exhibit a complex bioelectric patterns. Verypossibly organic.
From the molecular configuration, it appears  Theaperture is beginning to fluctuate. I believe
I believe my tricorder emissions caused the temporal aperture toactivate. I suggest we avoid exposing it to any
DATA : Further energy emissions.
They may have been attempting to eject their engine core.
We must get him to the runabout.
Yes, but I am getting unusual readings from his bioscan. I am not sure heis a Romulan.
His cellular structure does not conform to any known species. Hisbioelectric patterns are in a state of temporal flux. I do not believe thatthis being is native to our time continuum.
Correct, sir.
This is a biospectral analysis of the temporal aperture. The organicreadings originated from these dark spots.
Its bioelectric patterns are similar to those of the alien's. However,they are significantly less complex. Its cellular structure appears to be in astate of mitosis.
It is possible. If I could further scan the aperture, it might bepossible to
His molecular structure is destabilising.
Captain, I believe the aliens mistook the artificial singularity, whichthe Romulans use in their engine, for a natural one. A black hole. They triedto use it as a nest.
When the power transfer came into contact with the alien nest, I believeit disrupted the space-time continuum.
I estimate the core breach will consume the Enterprise in approximatelyseven hours, two minutes.
No, sir. We would have to surround the core with a subspace isolationfield. It is not possible to generate a field of that magnitude from therunabout.
Correct, sir.
I could attempt to remodulate the tricorder's delta-band emissions. Itshould be possible to better control the temporal aperture.
DATA : I have reached Engineering, Captain. Standing by.
Initiating tricorder emissions.
Captain.
The warp core breach has been reversed, sir.
DATA : Aye, sir.
Do not initiate that power transfer.
We must shut it down.
Computer, place a level three containment field around the warp core.
I was attacked by another alien, sir. I was unable to prevent the powertransfer. It cannot be disengaged, sir. A core breach is again imminent.
The core breach has been prevented, sir.
The alien who attacked me has vanished, sir.
Judging from the residual temporal fluctuations, I believe they havereturned to their own time continuum.
Come in.
Spot is sleeping, sir. Why do you ask?
Understood, sir.
Recent events have compelled me to study how humans perceive the passageof time. For example, I have often heard people comment that time seems to passmore slowly in one instance, or more quickly in another. In reality, the actualpassage of time remains fixed.
I have been testing the aphorism, 'a watched pot never boils'. I haveboiled the same amount of water in this kettle sixty two times. In some cases,
Sir?
Thank you, sir. I will try that.
Quite amusing, Doctor Hawking. You see, Sir Isaac, the joke depends on anunderstanding of the relativistic curvature of space-time. If two non-inertialreference frames are in relative motion
That story is generally considered to be apocryphal.
When I play poker with my shipmates, it often appears to be a usefulforum for exploring the different facets of humanity. I was curious to see howthree of history's greatest minds would interact in this setting. So far, ithas proved most illuminating.
I fold as well.
We will have to continue this another time. End programme.
It does not appear to be attacking the outpost, sir.
There is a great deal of electromagnetic interference. I am unable todetermine whether there are any lifeforms present.
Electromagnetic interference is still making it difficult to get aprecise reading.
The mechanism appears to be jammed, sir.
I have bypassed the primary system.
 Stop it! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop!
Yes, sir.
I got angry.
My internal diagnostic also finds nothing wrong.
I agree. Geordi, I believe I've experienced my first emotion.
You are correct in that I have no frame of reference to confirm myhypothesis. In fact, I am unable to provide a verbal description of theexperience. Perhaps you could describe how it feels to be angry. I could thenuse that as a reference.
Could you describe feeling hostile?
Could you describe feeling angry without referring to other feelings?
That was my experience as well. I simply felt angry.
I do not know. Perhaps I have evolved to the point where emotions arewithin my grasp. Perhaps I will experience other emotions as time goes by.
For the past six hours, I have attempted to produce an emotional responseby subjecting myself to various stimuli.
I listened to several operas known to be uplifting, I watched threeholodeck programs designed to be humourous, and I made four attempts to inducesexual desire by subjecting myself to erotic imagery.
Nothing.
Anger is a negative emotion. I wanted to concentrate on something morepositive.
But my study of humanity indicates there are some emotions that areharmful, such as jealousy or hatred.
But what if it does, Counsellor? What if it turns out that those are theonly emotions I am capable of experiencing? Would that not make me a badperson?
I wish I were as confident as you, Counsellor. When I was fighting the
It was just after I had killed the Borg. I looked down at his body. Ifelt something.
I believe it was pleasure.
Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop.
Yes, but it is all right. Do you need me?
I believe I am able to resume my duties.
I am attempting to recreate the experience which caused to my initialburst of anger.
None so far. I have almost completed this experiment. May I finish beforewe return to Engineering?
Computer, reset Borg simulation to time index two point one. Increase
Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Computer, reset simulation to time indextwo point one. Increase Borg strength by thirty percent.
Geordi, the computer will require the voice authorisations of two seniorofficers in order to disable the safety routine. Will you help me?
During the original incident the Borg presented a genuine danger to mylife. Since the Holodeck safety routine is in place, I know my life is not indanger. Since I am trying to duplicate the conditions of the original incidentas closely as possible, I must also attempt to duplicate the jeopardy as well.
This experiment may hold the key to something I have sought all my life.
I have tried other stimuli, but they have been unsuccessful. I understandyour objections, but it is my life and I have a right to risk it if I choose.
Captain, we are nearing the MS system.
Sensors are detecting a subspace distortion forming directly ahead of the
Impulse engines are now at one hundred twenty five percent.
We appear to be caught in some kind of energy matrix.
We are being pulled inside.
Main power is offline. I am switching to backups.
We have returned to normal space. Navigational systems are still offline.
Captain, this one is still alive.
Aye, sir.
I do not wish to be assimilated.
Yes. On Ohniaka Three, I was forced to kill a Borg. I got angry.
It would be unethical to take pleasure from another being's death.
Yes.
No. That is not correct. My creator Doctor Soong, gave me a programmewhich defines my sense of right and wrong. In essence, I have a conscience.
Step away from the forcefield. Your proximity is interfering with myscan.
It was a very potent experience.
Yes.
No. That would not be ethical.
Yes. His name is Geordi.
Yes. I would.
The sons of Soong have joined together. And together we will destroy the
Stop. Stop. Stop.
It was just after I had killed the Borg, I felt something. I believe itwas pleasure.
The sons of Soong have joined together. And together, we will destroy the
You are wrong, Captain. My brother and I serve a much higher purpose.
Yes. My brother has made that possible.
Do not try to drive a wedge between us, Captain. I am loyal to mybrother.
Hugh interfaced with the others and transferred his sense ofindividuality to them. It nearly destroyed them.
The Borg aspire to the perfection my Brother and I represent. Fullyartificial life forms. We are their future.
 I now realise that my life aboard the
There are no other emotions.
Counsellor Troi told me herself that feelings are not negative orpositive. It is how we act on them that makes them good or bad.
You simply do not understand. In a quest such as ours, sacrifices have tobe made. It is regrettable, but the greater good must be served. Give me yourvisor.
Give it to me or I will take it by force.
I am not your puppet anymore.
Here is the visor. May I ask why you wanted it?
All the Borg you have experimented on so far have suffered extensivebrain damage.
I understand.
That is not your concern.
 Geordi?
Shh. We're getting out of here.
 Too late. My brother suggested that I try to develop mysense of humour. What do you think?
I'm attemptin to neutralise your pain receptors.
I am implanting nano-cortical fibres in your cerebrum. They are designedto learn and mimic your neural firing patterns. Once they are in place, I willdestroy the existing brain cells. We'll see if the artificial neural network isable to take over your cognitive functions.
If the procedure is successful, your cognitive processing functions willbe considerably improved.
However, there is a sixty percent chance you will not survive theprocedure.
They are cause for concern. However, I still have Counsellor Troi and
Drop it or I will break his neck.
Take him.
I will be back for him later.
I have a complete memory record of that day.
I did not have enough buoyancy to get back to the surface.
One kilometre forty six metres.
I am ready to irradiate your existing brain cells.
I am getting some anomalous readings from your neural net. I will need todo further testing before I proceed. Someone will come and take you back toyour cell.
It is too early to tell if the nano-cortical fibres performed theirfunction.
They came looking for me.
I betrayed them. If they die, I am responsible.
I do not want you to check my systems. I must resolve these issuesmyself.
I do not like it.
Yes.
Yes. Please, I want more.
Thank you.
I did not come for him. I came for you.
That would not be possible.
It is for the greater good.
That is correct.
You are attempting to confuse me.
No. That would be wrong.
 Lore.
What are you doing?
Lore, I must deactivate you now.
I know, but you leave me no other choice.
Goodbye, Lore.
Lore is no longer functioning, sir. He must be disassembled so that he isno longer a threat.
Thank you, sir.
Enter.
I am relieved that the injuries I inflicted on you are not permanent.
This is the chip my father created for me so that I could experienceemotions. I had it removed from Lore's body before he was dismantled.
No. I am pleased to say it was damaged when I was forced to fire on Lore.
Yes. But emotions were responsible for what I did to you. I would neverrisk letting that happen again. My friendship with you is too important to me.
How is your diplomatic assignment progressing?
I have heard that in moments of diplomatic tension, it is often helpfulto find elements of commonality.
You share all of those qualities in abundance. Perhaps you should try tobuild on your similarities.
The interface unit is operating within expected parameters.
No one else has reported so complete a sensory experience.
Apparently the tactile sensors are too low. I will increase the input.
It provides tactile sensations so that Geordi can feel he's in the sameenvironment as the probe.
I have reviewed the vessel's mission plans. The Raman was to descend tothe lower atmosphere, eleven thousand kilometres below its current position.
The probe sends information via a focused particle beam. It should beable to cut through the interference.
Yes, sir.
Aye, sir. I will be on the Bridge.
We are ready to bring the interface online, sir.
Activating the remote sensors. Initiating interface now.
Do you have visual contact?
DATA : Acknowledged.
Increasing signal strength to seventy five percent of tolerance.
DATA : What is your position?
DATA : A magnetic storage bay.
Come in. 
No. I have completed the adjustments on the interface. I am now waitingfor Commander Riker to finish moving the probe. Do you need to be comforted?
I am using the time to catch up on my study of poetry.
That is not entirely correct. While it is true the display is currentlyblank, this emptiness has a poetic meaning. Therefore it cannot be considerednothing as such.
The ancient Doosodarians. Much of their poetry contained such lacunae orempty spaces. Often these pauses measured several days in length, during whichpoet and audience were encouraged to fully acknowledge the emptiness of theexperience.
Are you certain you do not wish to talk about your mother?
You are no doubt feeling emotional distress as a result of herdisappearance. While you claim to be just passing by, that is most likely anexcuse to start a conversation about this uncomfortable subject. Am I correct?
Then I apologise for my premature assumption. This particular poem has alacuna of forty seven minutes. You may experience the emptiness with me if youwish.
I do not understand.
My initial assumption was correct. You do wish to speak of your mother.
Your sanity is not in question. However, your evaluation of the availableinformation is biased.
Disappearances fitting the profile of the Hera have rarely ended with thesafe recovery of ship and crew.
I am not offended. You are upset. Your reactions are not surprising.
The input levels are currently at fifty three percent of tolerance.
Initiating interface.
DATA : I am increasing the input now.
DATA : Is this level sufficient? Geordi? Geordi, do you hear me?
The cut off has been automatically activated.
Geordi, I have analysed the probe's sensor logs. There are no record toindicate the presence of a living human on board the Raman.
We have no indication of a transmission of any kind.
The probe does allow Geordi to sense quantum fluctuations, subspaceanomalies, and other phenomenon not perceptible by any other kind of sensors.
If the Hera is on the surface, its hull could not possibly withstand thepressure of the atmosphere.
I have been exploring the possibility of using a tractor beam to pull the
That is my conclusion as well, Commander. Two shuttlecraft, staggeredbetween the Enterprise and the Raman, with their shields adjusted to refocusthe tractor beam.
There have been reports of warp bubbles and other subspace deformations.
Yes, sir. However, it is highly unlikely.
Nearly impossible, sir.
I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone.
I am familiar enough with your behaviour patterns to predict certaindecisions.
You are disobeying the Captain.
I can not allow you to endanger your well-being.
I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the mission.
I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can not haveyou confined to quarters for something you have not yet done.
There is a high degree of probability that you are correct.
However, I do have a request.
I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is notreal.
I am establishing the interface.
DATA : Geordi, are you seeing the image of your mother?
I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to whatthe probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your mother.
Geordi, the atmosphere becomes increasingly turbulent the farther downyou go. You may not be able to bring the Raman close enough to the Hera beforebeing destroyed.
The probe is descending out of range.
We are already at seventy five percent of tolerance.
That is theoretically true, but even at this level of input you arealready experiencing dangerous neural feedback.
I will increase the gain incrementally as you descend.
When we are ready to disconnect the interface, we must allow enough timeto lower the input levels, otherwise your nervous system will go into shockfrom the sudden drop in input.
DATA : Understood.
We are at ninety percent of tolerance. My calculations show you willreach one hundred percent of tolerance before you are in range of the Hera.
That would not be advisable. You must cease your descent.
Geordi, you are putting me in a difficult position. Please, cease yourdescent.
Disengaging safety systems. Going to full tolerance levels, now.
DATA : Reversing tractor beam.
Perhaps we could deceive his neural receptors.
By feeding them the sensory information recorded from his earlierexperiences with the probe.
We could then lower them in a controlled manner.
DATA : Data here.
DATA : Aye, sir.
Barradas Three is the only class M planet in this system, and it islisted as unpopulated. However, sensors have detected intermittent energysignals emanating from its surface.
The planet was used as an outpost for the Debrune approximately twothousand years ago. The Federation's Archaeological survey has cataloguednumerous ruins on the surface.
Aye, sir. Commander, as Acting First Officer, I must question yourdecision to accompany the away team. If Captain Picard were here
I realise that, sir. But if he were, and he wanted to lead an away team,you would tell him that the Captain's place is
Is there a malfunction?
What is the source?
Bridge to Transporter room two. Can you get a lock on the away team?
DATA : Data to away team. Please respond.
Why was it not detected earlier?
Raise shields. Red alert.
Damage report.
Take us to warp nine and pursue. Lock phasers on target.
Increase the sensor field bandwidth. Patch in the lateral sensor arrays.
Plot a course and take us back to Barradas Three. Notify the away team toprepare for transport.
Starfleet Intelligence confirms that a ship matching this configurationhas been linked to raids on several other planets in this sector. For the shorttime it was within our visual range, we were able to take sensor readings ofthe mercenary vessel. It appears to be encased in an energy absorbing material.
Without a full compositional analysis of the energy sheath, the chancesof finding the correct remodulation sequence are remote.
On the contrary, Lieutenant. That is precisely what we must do. Sincethere are no viable alternatives, we will return to the surface and attempt todetermine what these mercenaries are doing on this planet. An investigationmight reveal some indication of their purpose. Please notify me when you haveassembled your search teams. Dismissed.
Perhaps these artefacts have a special value to the Romulans.
These structures were built by the Debrune. That race is an ancientoffshoot of the Romulans. The ruins on the planet where Captain Picard waskilled were also Romulan in origin.
The question remains, why are they stealing these artefacts?
There are several archaeological sites in this sector containing ruinswhich are Romulan in origin. These are the locations that were attacked by themercenary vessel.
The only sites not been attacked were on Calder Two, Yadalla Prime, and
That would be their next likely target.
But it is only a small science station. It has limited defensivecapabilities. I do not believe it could withstand an attack from the mercenaryship. Mister Worf. Send a message to the Federation outpost on Calder Two.
Ensign, scan for Starfleet combadge signals. Is Commander Riker aboardthat ship?
Open a channel.
This is the Federation Starship Enterprise. You are ordered to standdown.
DATA : Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
Commander. Are you all right?
That is impossible, sir. The ship you are on has violated a Federationoutpost. It is my duty to stop it.
Commander, if you could explain
That is correct, Counsellor. He does know. Mister Worf, prepare to dropthe shields.
I am aware of that.
Mister Worf, that is an order.
Mister Worf, prepare to drop shields.
I am aware of that.
I believe you are right, Counsellor. It is now up to us to play along.
Set phasers to twenty five percent. Return fire.
I am aware of the tactical situation, Lieutenant. Let them go.
I agree the existence of such a message is remote, but I believe weshould check.
Inform Starfleet Command that we will hold this position until furthernotice.
Yes, but we will continue to pursue all avenues of investigation.
That is correct. But I believe Commander Riker wanted us to let themescape.
Possibly. I will attempt to resequence the signal. Begin running a searchfor a decryption key.
I have completed my analysis of the signal from the mercenary ship. Ibelieve these groupings represent bearings and coordinates taken from theirnavigational system.
Yes. If I am correct, the mercenary ship is heading toward thesecoordinates in the Hyralan Sector.
Make it so.
Lieutenant, may I see you in the ready room?
Lieutenant, I am dissatisfied with your performance as First Officer.
You continually question my orders in front of the crew. I do not believethis is appropriate behaviour.
That is true. But in those situations, you were acting as Head of
Yes. But once I have made a decision, it is your job to carry it outregardless of how you may personally feel. Any further objections should begiven to me in private, not in front of the crew. I do not recall Commander
If you do not feel capable of carrying out this role, I will assign it to
Then I expect you to conform to the guidelines I have laid out.
Dismissed. Mister Worf, I am sorry if I have ended our friendship.
I would like that as well.
Is it the mercenary ship?
Open a channel. This is Lieutenant Commander Data of the Federation
I take it that is your name? May I inquire as to your destination?
May I ask the purpose of your journey?
Perhaps I have not made our intentions clear. We are investigating
He seems most uncooperative.
According to the terms of the Klingon-Federation Treaty, Koral has everyright to free transit through Federation space. We cannot board or search hisvessel without cause.
I am not sure that using this clause as an excuse to conduct a searchwould be consistent with the spirit of the Treaty.
However, if Koral wishes to contest our actions he can file a protestwith the Judge Advocate General's office. Bring the shuttle aboard. Then youand Doctor Crusher can begin the inspection.
Lieutenant Worf has programmed our replicators to make a very goodapproximation of Klingon bloodwine. I believe you will find it to your liking.
If you could tell us something about the nature of your mission.
Commander Riker, by taking this action you risk charges of assault,theft, piracy, and treason.
Security alert. Medical emergency team to the Observation lounge. Data to
I must admit, I am experiencing a similar sensation.
What will become of the resonator, sir?
It is unfortunate it cannot be studied. The resonator is a key artefactfrom a remarkable period of history.
If we are to adhere to the exact letter of Starfleet regulations, thentechnically, sir, you have been declared a renegade. In fact, I believe you arefacing twelve counts of court martial offences. You cannot give orders either,sir.
Aye, sir.
 This way, sir.
I will go to deck twenty and begin modifications.
Excuse me. Do you have authorisation to work in this area? You aredismantling a warp plasma conduit. I must ask you to stop.
Geordi, have you ever had a nightmare?
I have had one hundred eleven dreams since I first discovered thisprogramme nine months ago. In all of that time, I have never experienced suchstrange and disturbing imagery. I believe it was a nightmare.
Perhaps. I have also noted that I am spending an inordinate amount oftime thinking about nightmare imagery. One could almost say I am preoccupied.
Geordi, you do not seem to appreciate Ensign Tyler's enthusiasm.
I do not understand.
You do not share her affection?
I believe I understand. You are concerned about unintentionally hurting
It would appear that you require a third party to intervene on yourbehalf. I will be happy to speak to her.
Geordi, when I first awoke from my nightmare, there was a brief momentwhen I
Captain, I am taking the warp-coil engines offline.
Enter.
Counsellor.
I have been watching Spot sleep. In the past fifteen minutes, he has hadtwelve muscles spasms, which indicates he was dreaming. I have often wonderedwhat Spot dreams about. His twitching and his rapid breathing would seem tosuggest anxiety, but Spot has never seen a mouse or any other form of rodentia.
That was very thoughtful of him. I've been debating whether or not toinitiate another dream sequence.
I have found them to be quite unsettling.
Thank you, Counsellor. I believe I will initiate a dream programme now.
Goodnight, Counsellor. Goodnight, Spot.
Computer, dim lights.
What kind of cake are you eating?
No, thank you. Excuse me, Mister Worf.
Sir?
Yes, sir.
Please identify yourselves. I must know what you are trying to 
I am sorry, Counsellor.
What is wrong?
My internal chronometer was supposed to wake me thirty five minutes ago.
That is not possible. Something is wrong.
I will compare my autonomic logs with the ship's chronometer. Perhaps wehave overlooked something.
It is a possibility. However, I would prefer to make certain there are noanomalies in my neural net.
I have not fully assimilated its impact. I would prefer to study theimages further before discussing them.
Strange is not a sufficient adjective to describe the experience.
It is difficult to explain. Counsellor Troi's body was a cake.
It had a black handle and a serrated blade, and it was quite long.
Twenty five centimetres in length.
One of the workmen pointed to her right shoulder. At that moment, I hadan overwhelming urge to cut a piece out of the cake.
Yes. As I began slicing the cake, she reacted as though I was causing herpain. Yet I could not stop cutting. That is when I woke up. Doctor Freud, I amcurious.
I am curious. What do my nightmares mean?
I do not understand.
But I do not have a mother.
but I have no sexual desire.
I do not believe I am being helped by this session.
That will not be necessary. Computer, end programme.
The warp field has collapsed, sir.
It appears Ensign Tyler still has a crush on you. It is clear you did notspeak to her.
I am reminded of a recent dream. This brace is reminiscent of
Hello?
I do not know.
Everything seems to remind me of the nightmare. Objects, sounds, smells.
I have run three complete self diagnostics. All of my systems arefunctioning normally. Perhaps Doctor Freud was correct. The knife I dreamedabout is the embodiment of my unconscious desire to inflict violence.
That is not possible.
Do you really think it is possible?
Daily?
Thank you, Counsellor. I look forward to our next meeting.
I am currently running a level three diagnostic of the relays, sir. Wewill have the results of the analysis in approximately ten minutes.
Hold very still, Counsellor.
I believe I had another waking dream, sir. But this time, I had anuncontrollable urge to eliminate the image I saw.
Yes, sir. For a reason I cannot explain, I had the need to destroy it.
No, sir. I saw a straw coming out of your head.
As I said before, these are all images I originally experienced in mydream programme. I do not have a rational explanation for them.
A sensible precaution, sir.
Of course.  May I ask a personal favour?
Will you take care of Spot for me?
I am afraid if I have another waking dream, I might injure him.
Unlike a canine, Spot does not respond to verbal commands. (hands him to
And he will require water. And you must provide him with a sand box. Andyou must talk to him. Tell him he is a pretty cat, and a good cat.
Perhaps that will be enough.
It is an interesting hypothesis. If I am being affected by theseinterphasic creatures on an unconscious level, it may also explain my wakingdreams, and my subsequent anti-social behaviour.
I see. The concept is similar to the method of directed dreaming.
Yes, sir.
I understand, sir. Initiating dream programme. Stand by.
Hello.
Cake?
It is cellular peptide cake.
Stop. You must not hurt my friends.
I believe I understand.
Geordi.
You must adjust my positronic subprocessor to emit an interphasic pulse.
The workmen in my dreams represent the organisms which are trying todemolish the ship. The incessant ringing of the telephone, Freud's cautions atthe other end, were warnings of the dangers around us.
My positronic subprocessor detected high frequency interphasic signaturesfrom the organisms, which were symbolically represented in my dreams by a highshriek.
That is why I have asked Geordi to adjust my subprocessor. If I canproduce a high frequency interphasic pulse, it may have a similar effect on thecreatures.
Enter.
Counsellor. I did not have a chance to apologise for my actions.
I wonder, what would Doctor Freud say about the symbolism of devouringoneself?
It is often the case that children learn languages more easily thanadults.
Mrs Troi?
Perhaps we are being too literal. I have recently learned in my study ofdream analysis that people who appear in a dream can sometimes representdifferent aspects of the person who is dreaming.
There is nothing wrong with the transporter. I have run a completediagnostic of all the targeting components.
A concentration of antigraviton particles suggests a tractor beam. Itmight have deflected the transporter beam to a different set of coordinates.
The tractor beam originated somewhere in the Prytt Alliance.
I have scanned the entire Prytt communications system. This appears to bethe primary access module for the central government.
I believe so, sir. However, the Prytt have no link designed forextraterritorial communication. Our hail may come as a quite surprise to them.
No, sir.
Geordi?
Why is Spot under the bed?
Has Spot been misbehaving?
These incidents are common to cat owners. When you borrowed Spot, yousaid you wanted to experience the full range of feline behaviour before gettinga cat yourself.
Spot does not respond to verbal commands.
I never found it to be necessary.
I have never experienced this kind of behaviour in Spot. Although shedoes have the unfortunate habit of jumping on my computer console when I amworking.
I do not think it would be wise to startle her.
The unusually intense tetryon fields in this sector pose a severenavigational hazard to warp driven vessels. The Hekaras Corridor is the onlyroute through the area which is free of tetryon fields. Ships travelling atwarp must use the Corridor to ensure safe passage through the region.
At least two days, sir. The Corridor is over twelve light years long, andthe surrounding tetryon interference will limit our sensor range.
Geordi, there has been a slight drop in sensor efficiency. Perhaps weshould examine the phase buffers.
Is there a problem with the engines?
Then why are you stabilizing the EPS conduit?
But that would not affect the engines in any way.
What is the point?
Why?
Yes.
I understand. You are in competition with Mister Kaplan.
Then you are trying to outperform the Intrepid.
One moment. The phase buffer is functioning within normal parameters.
Geordi, I have taken your suggestion regarding Spot.
I have begun training her.
Yes. I am studying several new techniques.
I began with simple conditioned response exercises and followed withenvironmental enhancement. Next I plan to explore bioconditioning devices.
Such as sensor nets for behaviour modification or biofeedback motivators.
Geordi. I cannot stun my cat.
Clearly there is a misalignment somewhere in this system.
I am somewhat concerned that my training efforts will ultimately fail.
I have consulted numerous animal training manuals. Some of them claimthat cats are inherently untrainable.
What did she train her cat to do?
Interesting. Perhaps I could modify your sister's techniques to keep Spotfrom jumping on console. Do you know how she was able to train her cat?
Phase alignment is stabilised. However, sensor efficiency has increasedby only an additional one point three percent.
Data here.
Acknowledged, sir. We are on our way.
That is correct, sir. Their impulse system is down as well, Powergeneration is at extremely low levels.
Life support systems are also functioning at low levels. There areapproximately four hundred fifty Ferengi on board. That is a standardcomplement for a ship of that class.
It would also explain the failure of their warp drive.
Direct hit. Their weapon systems are down.
Sir, the Ferengi ship's power has stabilised. They appear to have impulsecapability.
Spot. Spot. Spot, down. Spot, down. Down. Spot.  Down. This is down. Down is good. This is up. Up is no.
 One moment. Come in.
I would be happy to.
It is part of her training programme. I am teaching Spot to jump downfrom the desk on my command.
I have not been entirely successful.
Feline supplement number two twenty one.
I suppose I must accept that possibility. It may be that Spot lacks theintelligence necessary to learn the appropriate responses to my commands.
This procedure will only increase the conversion level by point eightpercent.
Enough?
La Forge, I got the Intrepid's power conversion levels up to ninety sevenpoint one percent. Maybe you should try cleaning your plasma grid once in awhile.
We perform maintenance on the plasma grid at regular intervals.
Unknown, sir. It does not appear in any Federation charts of the
It is a possibility. The debris consists primarily of duranium andpolycomposite fragments which suggest a ship. Furthermore, the field containssufficient mass to account for the Fleming.
Captain, I am picking up a small metallic object, approximately threepoint five metres in diameter.
I do not believe so. It is emitting an unusual signal. Captain, it isbeginning to generate a verteron field.
Unidentified ship heading toward us. Two life forms are aboard.
Captain, they are initiating their transporter system.
Captain, we are being boarded.
Serova and Rabal believe there are regions of potential subspaceinstability within the Corridor. They believe that if these regions continue tobe exposed to warp field energy, they will rupture. Subspace will extrude intonormal space, forming a rift.
That analogy is essentially correct, sir.
Not at this time, sir. There is insufficient evidence to do so. In orderto determine whether or not a rift will form, region must be exposed to warpfield energy approximately one million times greater than that normallygenerated by a starship.
I agree that is a possibility. Captain, I suggest we ask the Federation
Captain, the Hekaran ship's engines are beginning to overload. I believe
We have cleared the shock wave. However, tetryon flux in the area isincreasing rapidly.
The event is approximately zero point one light years in diameter, and itis emitting extremely high levels of tetryon radiation. It appears to be what
Scanning. The Fleming is near its previous coordinates. It appears to beintact, but it is now within the rift.
IF we maintain our current position, our shields should providesufficient protection.
The waves are even more intense within the rift. I estimate her shieldswill fail in approximately twelve hours.
Doctor, is it possible there are areas inside the rift which are stable,where we can safely use our warp engines?
That should not be possible.
I am not certain that is true. I believe I have an idea.
I suggest we coast into the rift.
We can initiate a brief, high intensity warp pulse from our currentposition. We should be able to attain sufficient velocity to enter the rift,beam the crew off the Fleming and exit without using our warp engines.
If we field saturate the nacelles, we should be able to sustain warpspeed for approximately two minutes.
The timing will be critical.
Aye, sir.
I believe the maximum saturation level should be eighteen point threepercent.
I agree. But based on the size of the rift, it should give us sufficienttime to complete the rescue. Computer, initiate nacelle field saturation.
I beg your pardon?
Technically, Geordi, we were not wrong. Serova's theories rested onassumptions which were unprovable.
By using methods any reputable scientist would never employ.
We reviewed Serova's research to the best of our abilities, and we wereprepared to continue studying the problem. But that was not satisfactory.
I do not believe that you would have resorted to such extremes.
Perhaps because her aggressive methods created an adversarial situation.
I do not understand.
Captain, warp pulse calculations are complete. We will be firing theengines at maximum intensity for six point three seconds before disengaging.
Engines disengaged. We are now entering the rift.  Hull stress isincreasing. Eighty three percent of maximum tolerance and rising.
Captain, if they activate
They are badly damaged, sir. Their life support systems are failing.
Captain, when the Fleming activated their warp drive, the rift expandedby two point three percent. We no longer have sufficient momentum to escape.
Distortion wave intensity has increased by a factor of ten.
Distortion waves occurring every fifty nine seconds. Hull stress isnearing maximum tolerance.
I do not believe so, sir, and the resulting explosion would likelydestroy the saucer section in the process.
The next distortion wave will impact in fourteen seconds.
DATA : Ten seconds.
We were unable to maintain phase match with the distortion wave, sir.
Another distortion wave approaching. Impact in twenty six seconds.
Captain, I suggest we take the ship to full impulse. If we can attainsufficient speed, it will lessen the shock when the wave hits.
Distortion wave impact in five seconds.
We are now within the distortion wave. Hull stresses have exceededmaximum tolerance.
Approximately twelve seconds, sir. Hull stresses one hundred twentypercent above tolerance.
We have cleared the rift, sir. Hull stress has returned to normal.
The only permanent solution would be to re-liquefy the core.
The procedure will involve using the ship's phasers to drill down throughthe planet's surface into the pockets, where we would set up a series of plasmainfusion units.
It should be possible to stabilise the core temperature at ninety threepercent of normal.
Yes, Doctor?
You are Doctor Juliana Tainer.
Have we met before?
You were a colleague of Doctor Soong?
Doctor, I have no memory of you.
My memory record begins when I was activated by the Starfleet officers onthe Omicron Theta outpost.
Yes. All of the inhabitants of the colony were killed. However, Idiscovered that my memory banks contained the contents of their journals andlogs.
My childhood?
So you wiped my memory processors after this childhood.
Doctor, I have scanned the journals of the colonists. There is only one
But there was no mention that my father was married to you.
My father did have an unusual way of looking at things.
I encountered him once in the Terlina system.
It was shortly before his death.
Yes.
What do you mean?
This has been an interesting encounter, and an altogether unexpected one.
Inform me when you are ready.
I am attempting to ascertain whether Doctor Tainer's story is true.
I neither believe nor doubt. I am simply attempting to verify herassertions.
The Registrar's Office on Mavala Four cannot confirm whether Doctor Soongwas married there. Apparently many of the documents were lost when thegovernment was overthrown.
I am checking passenger manifests to see if they went to Mavala duringthe period in question. O'Donnell, Juliana. Soong, Noonian. They were bothpassengers on a transport which travelled from Omicron Theta to Mavala andreturned four days later.
Still, the fact that they went to Mavala does not prove they were marriedthere.
Not at all. I am merely unable to reconcile her story with the fact thatmy father never mentioned her to me.
Yes. It is possible that those are memories of my childhood. And of Mrs
I can think of no motive for such a pretense.
That is true.
I admit I am finding it difficult to accept the possibility of a pastabout which I know nothing. But it is also true that I am curious to learn moreabout it.
I would like to get to know you better, Mother.
How did you decide?
Yes.
Pleased?
You misunderstand. Counsellor Troi is a therapist.
We will be in position over the drilling site in three minutes twentynine seconds.
These scans indicate that the magma pockets where we plan to set up theinfusion units are somewhat unstable.
Thank you, Geordi.
I am incapable of embarrassment. Please continue.
My calculations indicate
DATA : The first phaser blast will be approximately nineteen seconds induration.
We are within two kilometres of the magma pocket.
I detect no increase in the stress levels of the surrounding magma.
The drilling process has raised the temperature in the magma pockets byalmost three hundred degrees Celsius. It will be several hours before it coolsenough for us to enter.
I do not.
Thank you. I will be playing this piece at a recital tomorrow evening.
I have been told that my playing is technically flawless, but no one hasdescribed it as beautiful.
Are you certain you are not saying this because you are my mother? I havenoticed that parents tend to exaggerate when it comes to their children'saccomplishments.
I do not know for certain, but I believe it is during my creativeendeavours that I come closest to experiencing what it must be like to behuman.
As am I.
I would like that very much.
I could replicate one for you. Computer, please replicate one viola.
Yes. I am attempting to master all known styles of painting. This one isin the style of the early French impressionists.
That is Lal, my daughter.
I created her, using myself as a model.
The positronic matrix I designed for her was unstable. She only lived ashort time.
In a sense, you were her grandmother. Would you like to practice now?
The acoustics in Ten Forward are most favourable.
Of course.
Perhaps. I created Lal because I wished to procreate. Despite whathappened to her, I still have that wish.
I was not aware he created other androids before my brother.
I am that android. Are you saying you were against my creation?
Then why did you never attempt to contact me?
Perhaps if you told me what has made you feel this way, it may alleviatedthe guilt.
We are within four kilometres of the magma pocket.
If we do, we will have to begin a new shaft at a suitable location.
I am detecting no signs of
DATA : Instability.
Acknowledged.
I have initialised the plasma induction coils.
I am incapable of anger.
I am not certain I do. Perhaps you could clarify them for me?
If I had been your biological offspring, would you have left me on
Doctor Tainer, I get the impression you are trying to spare my feelings.
Is that because you place more value on biological life than onartificial life?
I do. Thank you for making it clear to me.
I was hoping you would be able to determine that from her transportertrace pattern.
Doctor, I would ask that you not require me to be more specific. I assureyou, I have a good reason for asking.
I see.
She has not complained of any discomfort.
Because I have reason to believe she is not who she claims to be.
Go ahead, sir.
On my way. Excuse me, Doctor.
Acknowledged.
There will be more seismic activity. We must hurry.
The shaft has not been obstructed by the seismic activity. It should bepossible to trigger the unit from orbit.
Priming the energy-transfer matrix.
Go ahead, sir.
Understood, sir. We will attempt to expedite our work.
Yes, sir. We'll be returning to the beam-out point shortly.
No, we are too far below the surface.
There are no handholds in the rock face. We are going to have to jump.
You will.
Check her positronic matrix. There may be a cascade anomaly.
The first indication occurred when we were digging. I saw her performcomplex calculations without the assistance of the computer.
That is true, but it was enough to get my attention. Later, I noticedsomething odd about the way she blinked her eyes. The intervals between blinkswere governed by the Fourier system, the same mathematical formula my fatherused to give my blinking pattern the appearance of randomness.
Then there was the concert in Ten Forward.
We had practised the piece, and I noticed that she played it the same wayduring the performance. Every pitch, every intonation, was exactly the same.
I do not believe so. He is on the surface monitoring the plasma infusion.
It appears to be an information module. With a holographic interface.
That is correct.
I am Data.
I am fine.
You refer to Doctor Tainer as my mother, yet the complexity of her designindicates she was created after I was.
What happened to her?
Then you never told her the truth?
What happened?
If she recovers and learns that she is an android
Then you do not believe she should know the truth?
It seems that I must make a decision. Whether to tell Doctor Tainer thatshe is an android or to withhold that information from her. I do not know whatto do.
He seemed certain that if she knew, it would preclude the possibility ofher being happy.
I am not certain. I understand why my father felt as he did, but hiswishes are not necessarily paramount. I am more concerned with what would bebest for her.
I find I am having difficulty separating what would be best for her fromwhat would be best for me.
If she knew she were an android, we would have something to share. Iwould no longer be alone in the universe.
You were knocked unconscious by the fall. You broke a bone in your arm,but Doctor Crusher repaired it. Everything is fine.
Perhaps I can visit Atrea on my next leave.
There is something I thought you should know. My father told me that hehad only one great love in his life and that he regretted never telling her howmuch he cared for her. I am certain he was referring to you.
Goodbye, Mother. Energise.
Happy birthday, Worf.
Yes. I have entered my Expressionistic phase. This is my interpretationof the Battle of HarOS.
The Array appears to be functioning normally, sir.
The Array is still transmitting data, sir, but it is no longer sendingthat information to the Federation. It appears someone has redirected itsimaging systems.
Sector one nine six five eight, sir. I am unable to access it's maincomputer, so it is impossible to determine the exact location.
DATA : Lieutenant Worf, please report to Engineering.
We have analysed the imaging logs. It appears the Array was reprogrammedto observe several Federation sites.
That is our theory. We believe unauthorised access was made six days ago.
Lieutenant, are you all right?
Lieutenant, have you completed the metallurgical scan of the Array?
The metallurgical scan. Have you completed it?
I know of no such logs.
Direct hit. Engineering Section and deck forty two. Shield generators areoverloading.
Captain, we have sustained heavy damage to the deflector systems. Hullbreaches on decks seventeen and thirty six.
I am initiating a subspace scan to search for temporal anomalies on oroff the ship.
 Two years, one month and twelve days.
It is my understanding your romantic affiliation began shortly after yourecovered from your spinal injury on stardate 45587. It was six months laterthat you asked Commander Riker for his formal permission to court Counsellor
I am not privy to the exact details of when, where or how your firstcoupling took place. I could investigate it
I am detecting no temporal anomalies in this system. Perhaps we shouldtry to pinpoint the exact moment when events became discontinuous. Do youremember the first change?
Think back. Are you sure that was the very first change?
We should try to find the commonalties in these events. Where were thepeople you were with?
It is possible. We should speak to Commander La Forge.
Doctor, is Geordi well enough to answer some questions?
There do not appear to be any unusual readings. Energy residuals from theplasma burns, the beginnings of cellular decomposition. I see nothing thatconnects these bio-readings to your recent sense of discontinuity.
I still see nothing unusual. Perhaps we should activate it.
The visor is active.
 Have you noticed another discontinuity?
I am detecting a quantum flux in your cellular RNA.
I do not know. I will have to analyse these readings.
I have found the quantum flux in Worf's cellular RNA extends to thesubatomic level. It is asynchronous with normal matter. In essence, Captain,
All matter in the universe resonates on a quantum level with a uniquesignature. That signature is constant. It cannot be changed through any knownprocess. It is the basic foundation of existence.
Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. It is as if he originates from a differentquantum universe.
Aye, sir.
It appears to be a quantum fissure in the space-time continuum.
The anomaly cannot be seen, but I believe I can enhance it with a warpfield to make it visible.
Not from this distance, sir. I am also detecting an ion trailintersecting the phenomenon. I believe it was left by a Starfleet type sixshuttlecraft.
I have an explanation, sir.
I believe the quantum fissure we discovered is a fixed point across thespace time continuum. A keyhole which intersects many other quantum realities.
For any event, there is an infinite number of possible outcomes. Ourchoices determine which outcomes will follow. But there is a theory in quantumphysics that all possibilities that can happen, do happen in alternate quantumrealities.
That is correct.
When Worf's shuttlecraft came into contact with the quantum fissure, Ibelieve its warp engines caused a small break in the barriers between quantumrealties. Worf was thrown into a state of quantum flux. He immediately shiftedinto other realities.
Exactly. The visor uses a subspace field pulse. I believe that whenever
An excellent idea, Lieutenant.
Captain, a Bajoran ship is approaching.
The barriers between quantum realties are breaking down. Other realtiesare emerging into our own.
The rate of quantum incursions is increasing exponentially. At this rate,the sector will be completely filled with Enterprises within three days.
Perhaps, if we can find the ship which that Commander Worf's quantumsignature.
It was Worf's shuttlecraft which traversed the fissure and weakened thebarriers between quantum realities. If he re-enters the fissure in his originalshuttle, and emits a broad spectrum warp field, it may be enough to seal thefissure and stop additional realities from emerging into our own.
In theory, the act of sealing the fissure should restore the barriersbetween quantum states. The ships would return to their own realities.
Yes, sir. It matches Commander Worf's quantum signature precisely. I haveremodulated the shuttle's engines to emit an inverse warp field. You will needto activate the field at the precise moment you enter the fissure.
That is one possibility. However, the uncertainty principle dictates thattime is a variable in this equation. You may end up several days before theevent or several days after. There is no way to tell.
Captain, Worf is entering the fissure.
Captain, we are approaching the Devolin system.
No, sir.
Initiating sensor sweep of grid zero one.
Scan of grid one five seven is complete. I am moving to grid one fiveeight.
I have confirmed Geordi's readings. The resonance signature isoriginating from somewhere beneath the asteroid's surface.
This asteroid contains several deep chasms large enough for a starship toenter. It is possible the Pegasus drifted into the asteroid's gravitationalfield and was pulled down into one of the fissures.
At least another six hours, sir.
In order for the deception to succeed, it would have to appear to be anatural phenomenon. Verteron particles are artificial in nature.
Theoretically, sir, it should work.
Aye, sir. Initiating ionisation field pulse.
Ionisation pulse complete.
The Romulans are initiating a tachyon scan of the asteroid. They haveswitched to their lateral sensor array. Beginning another scan.
The warbird has completed its sensor sweep.
They are moving out.
Yes, sir.
Beginning sensor sweeps.
Aye, sir.
For the past several hours, I have been scanning the area where wedetected the resonance signature of the Pegasus. From the strength and polarityof the signature, it would appear that most of the warp core is still intact.
I would recommend against it, sir. There may be gravimetric or magneticfluctuations inside the asteroid which would overpower the engines of ashuttlecraft.
It is theoretically possible, sir, but I am unaware of any priorsituations where a starship was taken so deeply inside a planetary body. Theremay be unforeseen difficulties.
It is so noted, sir.
We are now two kilometres beneath the surface.
Sensors show that the ship is still intact. However, sixty five percentof it is contained within the asteroid.
Yes, sir. I do not understand how this could have happened.
The starboard bulkhead of main Engineering is contained within the rockface, but most of its compartment is still intact.
I believe so, sir. The breach can be temporarily sealed by extending ourshields.
The asteroid's internal structure is highly unstable. Any attempt to cutthrough the rock could cause the entire chasm to collapse.
Theoretically it is possible, sir. But it would take several hours tostudy the device and determine how to link it to our systems.
The planet's atmosphere is dissipating, sir. Intense plasmonic reactionsare destroying it. The stratosphere is already breaking down. There areturbulent radiation storms across much of its surface. I estimate that theplanet will be uninhabitable in less than thirty eight hours.
Atmospheric dissipation is a rare and essentially unpredictable event.
The dissipation effect is generating plasmonic energy bursts.
I do not believe so. However, we may experience intermittent systemfailures and power surges as a result.
Captain, atmospheric dissipation has accelerated over the past severalhours. I estimate the planet's atmosphere will be completely gone within threeminutes.
The mesosphere is gone. Plasmonic reactions are now beginning to breakdown the troposphere.
It appears the plasmonic reactions are continuing to interfere with oursensors.
I had, sir. I will attempt to engage additional filtering elements.
There appears to be an unusual power drain in the EPS distribution net.
Unknown, sir. It is difficult to localize.
It will take approximately nine and one half hours to complete theanalysis.
That is correct, sir.
These are the two planets which best match our search criteria. Draygo
The alternative is Vacca Six. It is located in the Cabral sector.
It offers a less hospitable climate than the Boraalans are accustomed to.
It is a formidable responsibility.
Doctor, I do not believe we can offer any guarantees. We can simply makethe best choice we have at the moment.
Data to Bridge.
We have located a new home for the Boraalans, sir.
DATA : It is Vacca Six in the Cabral sector.
We are in synchronous orbit above the beam down site, sir.
The colony's aqueduct system is functioning normally, as are thecommunication relays.
Certainly.
I suggest we analyse the planet's weather patterns to see if they havebeen affected. I am reading unusually high humidity across the entire southerndesert region and there is increasing cloud activity above the northern coastalarea. Possibly the formation of a storm system.
I will run a diagnostic on the thermal regulators.
It began as a minor power fluctuation, sir, but the effect has spreadthroughout the control grid. It has caused an unusual concentration ofcumulonimbus activity above the colony.
There appears to be a condensed suspension of water vapour, approximatelyone degree Celsius.
I am unable to terminate the connection, sir. A feedback loop has formedin the transfer beam. I will have to go to the substation and attempt tocorrect the problem from there.
I have analysed the control module in the primary weather control grid.
Excuse me, sir. You are dismantling the primary power conduit. I must askyou to stop.
He is dead.
In the meantime, Governor, you should expect the weather problems tocontinue.
That is correct.
I cannot identify the energy residual. However, it appears to have thesame anaphasic signature as the power fluctuations we observed from the weathercontrol system.
It is possible.
Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the sameanaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body.
Approximately seventeen kilometres from the centre of the colony, sir. Itis coming from the cemetery.
Aye, sir.
The energy readings appear to be originating approximately two metresbelow the surface. I believe they are concentrated within this burial site.
DATA : Data to Picard.
DATA : Captain, we have located the source of the energy residual. Itappears to be concentrated within Felisa Howard's coffin.
I am reading definite signs of anaphasic energy in her body. It appearsto extend to the cellular level.
I suggest we run a deep tissue scan to look for any signs of
The enemy is firing.
Target is destroyed.
Less than five thousand kilometres, sir.
Sir, the pod's life support system is failing.
We would need to boost the gain on the confinement beam by at least sevenpercent.
Come in.
It is possible that at this distance we are unable to distinguish the podfrom the inorganic matter normally present in space.
Sir, I am detecting signs of debris two hundred thousand kilometresinside Cardassian space. Its mass and composition indicate it could be theremains of a Federation escape pod.
 Who are you? What do you want?
What's wrong with you?
My name is Garvin?
I do not know my name.
You asked if I knew my name. I do not.
Yes. It is becoming easier.
Goodbye.
I do not remember being in an accident.
I walked here from the mountains.
I have a clear memory of my journey.
I have no prior memory.
No.
Yes.
Radioactive.
That is what is written on the container.
Evidently.
I do not know. Perhaps it is my name.
That is correct.
No. But I cannot have indigestion since I have not eaten.
Then what do you believe I am?
Ice man?
Then I am not ill?
Thank you.
I am an ice man.
Radioactive.
Jayden. That is acceptable.
I do not know.
You may be right. But I do not wish to sell all the fragments. They mayprovide a clue to my identity.
I believe the support structure on the anvil collapsed because some ofthe wood had rotted. Did I do something wrong, Garvin?
You have told me no one from the village has ever been to the Vellorian
But no one has actually seen one?
I neither liked it nor disliked it. I simply had no appetite.
Where is your mother?
Yes. I do.
I do not believe that is correct.
I believe you are reasoning by analogy, classifying objects and phenomenaaccording to superficial observation rather than empirical evidence. Wood, forexample, does not contain fire simply because it is combustible, nor does itcontain rock simply because it is heavy. Wood, like any complex organic form,is composed of thousands of different chemical compounds, none of which isfire.
Yes. But I do not agree with Talur's assessment. Although I do have gapsin my memory, I know that fire is not an element.
Garvin is correct. You agreed on twenty.
With an increased focal length and an achromatic objective lens, thisinstrument will have a higher effective magnification.
Garvin, with your permission, I would like to begin my own investigationregarding the cause of your illness.
Gia, I would like you to accompany me to the village. I will need somesupplies.
I will use these materials to make the laboratory equipment I need toresearch your father's illness.
I do not know. First I must isolate the cause of the illness.
Am I to understand that Garvin's illness has spread?
Gia, I think we should leave.
I am studying skin samples from Gia and Garvin in an attempt to isolatethe cause of the illness.
Yes. She is also beginning to show signs of the illness.
It is a magnifying device based on your hand-held instrument. I haverefined the design to increase the magnification level.
Of course.
Objects appear approximately five hundred times their normal size. As youcan see, the cellular damage is quite extensive. However, based on interstitialtransparency and membrane integrity, I do not believe it is an infection or anyother form of communicable disease.
At the moment, I am looking for a common event or experience that Gia,
Yes, but since the illness struck all three in a relatively short periodof time, it is reasonable to assume the experience is recent and unusual.
I am aware of that. Excuse me. I am also open to the possibility that Imay in some way be the causal factor. However, since you have had a great dealof contact with me and you show no signs of the sickness, I tend to discountmyself as a likely candidate.
I agree.
Talur is correct. You should rest. I will attend to your father. Gia,when did you begin wearing that pendant?
May I see it? This is one of the metal fragments I sold to Skoran.
I have coated this piece of cloth with the liquid which is used in lamps.
I believe a stream of particles is emanating from the metallic pendantand hitting the cloth.
You will see there are. I can even block them.
It would appear that this container was constructed of a material whichabsorbs or blocks the particles coming from the metal.
No. It is empirical data. I believe the fragments were originally placedin this container to protect people from accidental exposure. The wordradioactive may be a warning about the dangerous nature of the metal.
I will continue my experiment. I would like you to gather all the piecesof metal in the village and place them in this container.
Of course.
If you are referring to the illness, you are partially correct. However,it is more complex than that. The metal fragment which
I do not know.
Gia.
I do not know what I am. But I am not like you.
No. I am not.
I do not wish to frighten you.
I understand your reaction. But I do not wish to harm you. You or Garvinor anyone else. I only wish to help, to find a cure for the illness. I was veryclose. I must to continue my work, but it will take time. How long until Skoranand the others return?
Then I must hurry.
Gia, I believe I have found the answer.
I believe so. I tested this medicine on skin samples from your father.
A compound I made which will neutralise the particles that are making youill. Swallow this. I must administer this to everyone in the village, but I donot think they will trust me after what happened to Skoran.
I am afraid they will not believe you either. Gia, is the well in thetown square the only source of water for this village?
This is very important. Are there any other sources of fresh water nearthe village?
Then I will put this compound into the well water. It may be diluted, butit should still have enough potency to work.
I only wish to help.
I do not know. I am surprised to find myself here. I thought I was on
I had located the crashed Federation probe and collected the radioactivefragments. I was attempting to download the sensor logs from the probe'sonboard computer. There was a power surge. I believe the surge overloaded mypositronic matrix. After that, I have no memory until this moment.  It appears I had an interesting time.
Counsellor, have you been promoted in my absence?
Yes, sir.
I have finished.
The dimensions are accurate to within one point three percent.
Counsellor, music is a collection of acoustic vibrations. How can Ireproduce a sound with clay?
Acknowledged, sir. On my way.
Based on its present trajectory, the comet appears to have originated inthe D'Arsay system.
That is correct, sir. This object has been en route for eighty sevenmillion years.
Aye, sir. The comet's outer shell is composed primarily of gaseoushydrogen and helium surrounding an icy mantle. The inner core consists ofheavier elements
There is distortion within the comet's inner core. I believed weexperienced an intense sensor echo.
I am attempting to do so now, sir. I have compensated for the effect.
I followed your advice, Counsellor. I used my imagination.
For some reason, as I was shaping the clay, the image of the mask wasexceptionally clear in my mind. The design seemed to flow quite naturally.
No, Counsellor.
I do not.
Perhaps we should investigate this matter further.
I believe I recognise these symbols.
I do not know.
It is a possibility. I do not believe my systems are currently impaired,but I will run a full diagnostic to make certain.
Boundary. Border. Road. Companion. Message. Messenger.
Death.
I do not know, sir. The object is nearly solid. It is composed primarilyof fortanium and several unknown materials. It is over eighty seven millionyears old.
Captain, I believe this object is an informational archive.
I do not know. However, I seem to have an intuitive understanding of itsfunction.
It is a possibility, sir. I recommend we run a level one diagnostic of mypositronic net immediately to determine if that is the case.
I suggest we examine the memory subsystem next.
I am not certain. I am experiencing a curious sensation.
An impulse.
I do not know.
Geordi, what does it feel like when a person is losing his mind?
I do not know. I am different.
Okay.
DATA-IHAT: Masaka is waking.
DATA-IHAT: Captain. I've been waiting for you. You should feel honoured. Idon't usually wait for anyone.
DATA-IHAT: Masaka is waking.
DATA-IHAT: I am not Masaka. I am Ihat.
DATA-IHAT: Commander Data? You mean the one who was here?
DATA-IHAT: He's gone. Who can say where?
DATA-IHAT: Picard to Counsellor Troi. Report to main Engineering immediately.
DATA-IHAT: I come from Masaka's city.
DATA-IHAT: There are no others like me.
DATA-IHAT: You will find out.
DATA-IHAT: Do you understand pain? Death? That is all you need to know of
DATA-IHAT: Masaka.
DATA-VICTIM: I am yours. Every part of me is yours.
DATA-VICTIM: Only Masaka can hurt me. I am for her alone.
DATA-IHAT: Captain. That was a cruel joke you played on me. For a moment, abrief moment, I actually thought that woman was Masaka.
DATA-IHAT: Pitiful, isn't it. You won't catch me humiliating myself for a womaneven if she were a queen.
DATA-IHAT: She's a lazy creature. She spends most of her time sleeping. Theproblem is, what she does when she's awake.
DATA-IHAT: Try to stop the sun from climbing the sky? Only Korgano can do that,and he's not here.
DATA-BOY: Help me. Please.
DATA-BOY: I'm afraid.
DATA-BOY: Of her.
DATA-BOY: Her!
DATA-BOY:  Don't leave me.
DATA-BOY: Does it hurt?
DATA-BOY: She's going to hurt us all.
DATA-IHAT: Now you've done it, Captain. Masaka is awake.
DATA-ELDER: Difficult to stay warm. It's not warm enough, not for an old man.
DATA-ELDER: My daughter.
DATA-ELDER: Children grow, forget their parents. Only Korgano can talk to
DATA-IHAT: Well, aren't we the persistent one.
DATA-IHAT: Is anyone else so charming?
DATA-IHAT: I told you she would.
DATA-IHAT: Who told you that?
DATA-IHAT: Oh, yes, yes. Legend has it she chopped him up and used his bones tomake the world. Any wonder he doesn't like to talk about her?
DATA-IHAT: I don't know. He's not chasing her anymore.
DATA-IHAT: Stop asking me these questions. I was fast enough to get away fromher once. I don't want her to find me again. I'll wind up on her sacrificialslab.
DATA-IHAT: Well, there's an idea. Better you than me.
DATA-IHAT: You must build Masaka's temple. The Queen's temple. That will gether attention.
DATA-IHAT: You need the sign. I could give it to you. So could the old man. Butjust try getting it out of him.
DATA-IHAT: If she finds out, you can't imagine her rage. She lets people die ofthirst. A terrible death. Sometimes she burns them alive. She is glorious.
DATA-IHAT: If she comes, you will take my place?
DATA-IHAT: All right. Quickly, give me your hand. A line, as the unendinghorizon. A curve as. She has found me.
DATA-IHAT: It seems I was not fast enough.
DATA-ELDER: So hard to stay warm. Are you one of my children? I can't rememberanymore.
DATA-ELDER: It won't help you. Korgano no longer pursues her. Only he can stopher.
DATA-ELDER: As the rolling hillside. A point as a distant bird. A ray as therising sun.
DATA-ELDER: Now, come sit with me. Tend the fire.
DATA-BOY: I'm alone. No one left to help me. She's coming.
DATA-BOY: No. She sent them away. It will take them days to die.
DATA-MASAKA: Go away.
DATA-MASAKA: I do not hear you.
DATA-MASAKA: Korgano.
DATA-MASAKA: I thought I had escaped you.
DATA-MASAKA: You are a fine hunter but I am a powerful prey. You will nevercatch me.
DATA-MASAKA: I thought I was alone. I thought I would not have to share the skywith you.
DATA-MASAKA: You know me well, Korgano.
DATA-MASAKA: I am getting sleepy. You always do that to me.
DATA-MASAKA: Let the hunt begin again. I am eager for that.
I believe so, sir. I am not entirely certain what has happened. Have Ibeen dreaming again?
That one was not created by the archive, sir. That is the clay mask Ioriginally made. I have since painted it.
Yes, sir. Although I am relieved to be rid of those alien personalities,in a sense, I am now empty.
I suspect the number was much greater. My impression is that there werethousands, of all ages and walks of life. It was a remarkable experience.
We are losing containment in the starboard nacelle tube.
Aye, sir.
The plasma venting system has engaged.
Aye, sir.
Geordi, would you agree that the instinct for self-preservation is sharedby most life forms?
That being the case, I find it difficult to understand why someone woulddeliberately terminate their own existence.
I believe I understand. I have been in a similar situation.
The first months following my activation were a difficult period for me.
As I acquired new skills, neural pathways would form replacing other lesscomplex pathways. It was very disorienting.
As my systems grew in complexity, it became increasingly difficult tointegrate new pathways into my existing neural net. The probability of cascadefailure grew with each additional pathway. I came to the conclusion it would besafer and easier to shut myself down and start again.
In a way, it would have been like committing suicide.
I decided against the procedure. I chose instead to treat the problems Iwas having with my systems as challenges to overcome, rather than obstacles tobe avoided.
The shipyard where the Enterprise was built.
Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic.
No, they were installed two years ago.
I am getting readings that indicate organic material embedded in thiswall.
It appears Counsellor was correct. Pierce was partially telepathic. Hismaternal grandmother was born on Betazed.
According to Starfleet records, Pierce and the other persons Counsellor
I believe she is doing well. Her appetite has increased by seven percent,and she is starting to engage in prenatal behaviour.
I have noticed that many humans prefer not to know in order to experiencethe surprise during birth. I believe I will preserve the mystery until then.
I have spent the past nine weeks as an expectant parent. I would be happyto share my insights with your husband. If my experience is any indication, hewill need all the help he can get.
That would be inadvisable, sir. The asteroid field is unusually dense.
Captain, I will need a few minutes to attend to a personal matter.
It is possible that it will take several days for Captain Picard and meto complete our mission. I would prefer to have a human present to supervisethe birthing process.
I have noticed that you are the only other member of the crew whom Spotseems to like.
She is to you. However, there have been several injuries to other membersof the crew who have attempted to care for her.
A place?
I am not certain. Spot has escaped from my quarters on several occasionsand there are twelve male felines on board. I intend to run a full DNA analysison the kittens once they
On my way, sir. Goodbye, Spot. I believe you are in good hands.
I'll check that.
Captain, the ship is not at the pre-arranged coordinates.
I do not know. I am unable to raise them on any communication channel.
I found it, sir, two light years away.
The Enterprise appears to be adrift. I am reading power fluctuations onall decks.
There are life signs. However, sensor readings are highly distorted. I amunable to identify specific lifeforms.
Main power is offline. All systems are in standby or emergency mode.
I cannot access internal sensors from here. We will have to go to the
Yes, sir. I am able to discern over three hundred differentvocalisations.
It is composed of reptilian DNA. I believe it is an epidermal layer thathas been cast off during moulting.
Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. There are no species aboard the Enterprisethat shed their skin in this fashion.
Sir.
No, sir.
Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux. Her genetic codes are being re-sequenced and her cells are mutating as a result. At a fundamental level, sir,she is no longer human.
Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolising both water andair, and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes. I believe she isamphibian, sir.
Yes, sir. There's Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva.
It would appear so.
I will need to run a full biospectral analysis.
His upper spinal column has been broken in three places.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir. However, it was in its initial stages when he died. Captain, Iam picking up one thousand and eleven individual life forms within the ship.
Most of the lifeforms are scattered throughout the ship. However, thereare several large concentrations in the arboretum and the aquatic lab.
Captain. His cranial plates have thickened by twenty percent. His brainis much smaller, sir. I do not believe he can comprehend our language.
Yes, sir. His DNA would seem to confirm that observation. Captain, Ibelieve the crew is de-evolving.
I have analysed Commander Riker's DNA structure. A synthetic T-cell hasinvaded his genetic codes. This T-cell has begun to activate his latentintrons.
They are genetic codes which are normally dormant. They are evolutionaryholdovers, sequences of DNA that provided key behavioural and physicalcharacteristics millions of years ago, but are no longer necessary. Forinstance, Counsellor Troi's gill slits and other amphibious characteristicswere derived from introns which still contain amphibious codes.
That is correct. In her case, the DNA has created an amphibious lifeformwhich became extinct over fifty million years ago.
Yes, sir. I would say Australopithecine. Each of these stages is anotherlink in the evolutionary chain which stretches back to the origins of alllifeforms on Earth. Because introns can include genetic material from manydifferent species over millions of years of evolution, it is possible that awide variety of transformations is occurring among the crew.
All humanoid life has a similar genetic pattern. The virus should work onnon-human crewmembers in the same way. They are each de-evolving to earlierforms of life on their homeworlds. I feel I must inform you, sir, you have alsobeen infected by the intron virus.
According to my calculations, within the next twelve hours, you willbegin to exhibit the first signs of your eventual transformation.
I believe you will also de-evolve into some form of early primate.
I am uncertain. We will need to run several microcellular scans. However,the ship's main computer has been damaged. Captain, the computer in my quartershas an independent processing and memory storage unit. It should not beaffected. I suggest we start from there.
It would appear that Spot has had her kittens.
Yes. I am curious as to why Spot is not caring for them.
No, sir.
These kittens were born less than twenty four hours. It would appear that
I believe so. For some reason, the intron virus was not passed on to thekittens. I do not know why.
That is true. Placental barrier, maternal antibodies and amniotic fluidsall serve as a filtration system.
It would take further research, but I believe to be effective on humanoidcrewmembers, humanoid antibodies would be necessary.
Nurse Ogawa has recently became pregnant.
I have traced her comm. badge signal to deck seventeen, section twentyone alpha.
One of the warp plasma vents has failed. Main Engineering has beenabandoned. There is no one there to fix the problem.
I can repair the damaged plasma vent from here.
I believe it was Lieutenant Barclay. He appeared to be partiallytransformed into an arachnid.
Yes, sir. Are you all right, Captain?
You may be experiencing the initial stages of your transformation. Earlyprimates were often prey to larger carnivores. As a result, their instinctsprobably included a heightened sense of awareness.
Captain, I have analysed Nurse Ogawa's embryo. It has been unaffected bythe virus. I believe I can use her amniotic fluid as a template for aretrovirus. It would neutralise the synthetic T-cell, and re-establish theoriginal genetic patterns of each host.
It will not take long to isolate the appropriate genetic material. I willneed to get the Sickbay computer back on
It is large. Approximately two hundred kilograms. It is heavily armoredwith an exoskeleton. Life signs appear to be Klingon.
We cannot be certain a stun setting will have any effect on him. A highersetting may kill him.
There are crewmembers in the corridors and other sections of the ship. Itwould be much easier for him to capture and consume one of them, than toattempt to break through a door.
Captain, what are you suggesting?
If that is true, he must be trying to reach her now.
The mating instinct is quite strong in Klingon biology. I am not certainwhat would be an effective lure.
I am extracting a blood sample from one of her sebaceous glands, wherethe pheromones are produced. I believe I can activate the pheromones with abioactivant solution.
I believe this will produce the desired effect. I will use it to draw
Captain, that is extremely unwise. Worf may be much faster than
Computer, display progress of genetic re-sequencing.
Computer, increase nucleotide substitution by thirty two percent.
Data to Captain Picard.
The retro virus is working, sir.
I can release it into the ship's atmosphere in a gaseous state.
DATA : However it will take some time to take effect.
Are you all right, sir?
If so, we may have to call Security.
I was of course not serious about calling Security. It was a joke.
Goodbye, Wes.
The delay will also make it possible for Stellar Dynamics to completetheir study of the Vodrey Nebula.

Starfleet records contain no mention of the Duras sisters after theirdeparture from Deep Space Nine.
We are approaching Kalla Three.
It is difficult to say. The magnesite is interfering with bioreadings.
Then you are denying involvement in illegal mining activities?
Would you be willing to share your information with us?
We could certainly provide passage off this planet in exchange forinformation.
Gather your belongings. It is time to leave.
I am detecting a vessel holding position near the third planet. It is a
The resonance signature indicates that there is magnesite ore present.
Sir, readings indicate that there are only five hundred kilograms of orein the Yridian hold.
Sir, that would place the ore directly off the ship's starboard bow.
It appears to be an unmanned probe approximately one half metre indiameter. There are no identifiable armaments.
The beam appears to contain holographic imaging information.
Aye, sir.
Captain, I am unable to find any information on Jason Vigo's currentwhereabouts.
No, sir.
That would significantly narrow our search. The only cultivated land ison the southern continent, and there are relatively few people engaged inagricultural activities.
I am detecting eight humans. Three are female. However, they are all tooyoung to be Miranda Vigo.
One is an infant. Another is elderly. Two are middle aged.
I am having difficulty getting a clear reading on the eighth. Theindividual appears to be approximately two kilometres beneath the planet'ssurface.
Male, between twenty and thirty years old.
Aye, sir.
Bok took the precaution of encrypting the probe's navigational systems sothat we would be unable to decipher its flight path.
Those phenomena are relatively common. We would need to identify at leastone of them specifically in order to postulate a flight path.
Captain, incoming message from DaiMon Birta.
There is a class four pulsar three light years from the nebula. Mycalculations indicate the probe was launched in the Xendi Kabu system.
Captain, I have compiled all available records pertaining to Jason Vigo'scriminal record, and
Yes, sir. He has been charged three times with petty theft, twice fordisorderly conduct, and several dozen times for trespassing.
I believe the charges relate to his climbing activities in the cavesunderneath the planet's surface. This is the information you requested, is itnot?
I do not believe so, sir.
Captain, I do not believe it was meant as an attack, but rather as amessage.
Yes, sir, in B'zal, a Ferengi code which uses an alternating pattern oflight and darkness.
I am attempting to do so. The message reads, my revenge is at hand.
Bok was in direct contact with this chair for an extended period. It isshowing a distinctive subspace signature as a result.
The Federation abandoned its research in the field because the technologywas found to be unreliable, as well as energy intensive.
In theory it could operate over several light years.
If Bok uses his transporter again, we might be able to trace the subspacesignature and locate his ship.
It is a possibility.
In order to do so, we would need to tie the ship's subspace field coilsinto the transporter system.
Sir, sensors are detecting a subspace carrier wave headed for the ship.
The transporter beam is focusing on deck nine, section four.
No, sir. The subspace signature left by his transporter is decaying morerapidly than predicted. It may not be possible to trace it.
I am tracing the transporter beam Bok used to send the probe. The ship isholding position approximately three hundred billion kilometres from here.
It may be possible, sir, but it would not be advisable.
Phase dampers are in synch. Standing by to modulate the transportpattern.
Initiating transport sequence now.
I know you'd probably have preferred a bottle of
Graves at my command have wak'd their sleepers, op'd, and let 'em forthby my so potent art. But this rough magic I here abjure, and when I haverequired some heavenly music, which even now I do, to work mine end upon theirsenses, that this airy charm is for, I'll break my staff, bury it certainfathoms in the earth, and deeper than did ever plummet sound, I'll  Captain? Sir, your attention is wandering.
But sir, I am supposed to be attempting a Neo-Platonic magical rite. Thedarkness is appropriate for such a ritual.
Perhaps I have been too literal with respect to my set design. Computer,modify holodeck programme Data seven three. Shakespeare's_The_Tempest,_Act
Yes, sir. Captain, I am not certain I fully understand this Prosperocharacter. I would appreciate any insight you might have that would improve myperformance.
There is certainly a tragic aspect to the character.
No, sir.
It appears to be a steam locomotive.
If I am not mistaken.
Captain, you are injured.
The train we encountered was from one of Doctor Crusher's holodeckprograms. It was a re-creation of the Orient Express, a train which travelledfrom Paris to Istanbul from the late nineteenth century until.
There appears to have been a malfunction in the holodeck's databaseretrieval programme. The two programs somehow temporarily linked together.
It is a possibility. I will need to run a diagnostic to be certain.
Aye, sir.
The ship has moved into warp, sir.
Apparently no one. Helm and navigation controls are not functioning. Ourspeed is now warp seven point three and holding.
Bearing one eight seven mark four. I am unable to determine ourdestination, however we are heading away from the Mekorda sector.
We are no longer at warp, sir. Impulse power has resumed. All systemsshow normal.
We are approximately thirty billion kilometres from our originalposition.
One fact is clear, however. The distortion was growing in strength. If wehad remained at our original position one point seven seconds longer, thedistortion would have ruptured our warp core.
Perhaps the engines were activated by a random power fluctuation.
It is improbable, but it is possible.
There is another possibility.
The sensors apparently detected a dangerous anomaly that threatened the
It appears to be connected to several other systems as well, includingthe warp control circuits.
I am not certain. Perhaps it came from the node itself.
It appears to be protecting itself.
These nodes were linking the sensors to our warp control and defensivesystems. We believe this is why the ship jumped to warp.
It is possible that the magnascopic storm we recently experienced had anunexpected effect on the ship's systems.
As they increase, it will become progressively more difficult to controlthe ship.
Agreed. All of the nodal connections intersect in holodeck three. Itappears to be a focal point of some kind.
Commander, the holodeck appears to be in operation.
I did, but it has reactivated itself and it will not disengage.
Several different programs are running simultaneously.
No, sir. I estimate that this scene consists of portions of sevendistinct holodeck programs.
Commander. I have located a large concentration of nodes behind thiswall. They appear to be connected directly to the holodeck's main powercoupling.
The power grid is located beneath this deck, sir.
I believe we have changed direction.
Commander. According to my tricorder, the holodeck safeties have beendisengaged. His weapon could be lethal.
The number of systems now being affected by the nodes has increasedconsiderably. Sensors, engines, replicators, propulsion, they are all workingtogether now, almost independently of the main computer. And the nodes linkthem all through the holodeck.
Commander, I believe what happens on the holodeck has a direct effect onthe ship. When we attempted to destroy the nodes, the characters on the trainresponded almost immediately to stop us.
Then the conductor then signalled for the train to change directions, andat approximately the same time
Not precisely. Geordi, does the configuration of connection nodes lookfamiliar to you?
That is correct. It would appear that the nodes are in the process ofcreating a rudimentary neural net.
Unlikely as it may sound, I believe that the Enterprise may be forming anintelligence.
This is a synaptic map of the human neo-cortex. This is a cross sectionof my positronic net. And this is a schematic of the connection nodes linkingthe ship's systems. I believe some sort of neural matrix is forming on theship. It is still relatively primitive, but it is an intelligence nonetheless.
I believe it is an emergent property.
Complex systems can sometimes behave in ways that are entirelyunpredictable. The human brain, for example, might be described in terms ofcellular functions and neurochemical interactions. But that description doesnot explain human consciousness, a capacity that far exceeds simple neuralfunctions. Consciousness is an emergent property.
Exactly.
The Enterprise contains a vast database of information which is managedby a sophisticated computer. This complex system gives the ship many of thecharacteristics of a biological organism.
Yes, sir. I believe a self-determining intelligence is emerging.
I believe the key to understanding the ship's behaviour lies in theholodeck. All of the connection nodes intersect at that location. It is clearlysome kind of processing centre.
Yes, sir. A focal point where all the ideas and instincts of thisemerging intelligence are first expressed in some form.
Welcome aboard, Counsellor.
If you will distract these people, I will attempt to depolarise the powergrid.
I am ready to access the main power grid.
I can access the power grid here. I will attempt to depolarise the gridby using a low frequency inversion field. It may disengage the nodes withoutdestroying them.
DATA : Data here.
I encountered a minor difficulty, Counsellor, but it has been dealt with.
I am ready to depolarise the power grid.
Acknowledged.
DATA : Agreed.
Data to Captain Picard.
DATA : There has been an accident on the holodeck, sir. Has anythinghappened to the Enterprise?
Data to Captain.
The train has returned to normal, sir. Our destination is New Vertiform
DATA : Understood, sir.
How did the Conductor stop the train?
I can get us there more quickly. I know a shorter route.
Yes, if you will let me handle the controls.
Data to Captain Picard. I have taken control of the engine room.
I will attempt to do so.
Captain, I am staging a scene from The Tempest this evening for a smallaudience. I would like for you to attend.
Miranda's first encounter with other human beings.
It seemed appropriate. Captain, you took a substantial risk in allowingthe Enterprise to complete its task.
Because the end result was unknown. The object could have been dangerous.
Yes, sir.
I will scan their warp signatures. Sir, sensors indicate the attackingvessels are Federation ships.
They are not responding, sir.
The Maquis ships are regrouping, sir. They are closing in on the
She is responsible for the death of a Cardassian soldier.
Do you know where she went?
It is unlikely that they would receive our communication, sir. The Topinsystem contains an unstable protostar. It generates significant magnetoscopicinterference.
Most of our sensors would be ineffective, although our directional arrayshould cut through the interference.
No, sir. It will take approximately six hours to scan this system.
I am attempting to do so.
Sir, I am scanning the area from which the distress signal was sent, but
Sir, a vessel of some kind is attempting to penetrate our aft shields.
The vessel that penetrated our shields is of the same design as the shipsused by the Maquis. It is moving off.
I have established a relay link with the sensor probe we left on theperimeter of the Nebula. This is the convoy. We are expecting the Maquis attackforce to cross the border from the Demilitarised Zone.
Sir, the Maquis squadron is coming into sensor range.
Sir, the vessel being piloted by Lieutenant Ro is firing a low intensityparticle beam into the nebula.
The polarising effect being created by the beam may make it possible forus to be detected.
I will attempt to do so.
Sir, the Maquis ships are breaking formation.
No, sir. They are withdrawing.
Holding the Lucasian Chair does have its perquisites. This houseoriginally belonged to Sir Isaac Newton when he held the position. It's becomethe traditional residence.
Jessel. She can be frightfully trying at times, but she does make melaugh.
I found that a touch of grey adds an air of distinction.
Captain, how long has it been since you've seen a physician about your
But sir, peridaxon
In all honesty, Captain, the thought has occurred to me. However, there'snothing to disprove what you're saying. So it's possible something is happeningto you. The first thing we should do is run a complete series of neurographicscans. We can use the equipment at the biometrics lab here on the campus.
That would be inadvisable.
If you attempt to ignite a petroleum product on this ship at zero hundredhours, it will activate the fire suppression system, which would seal off thisentire compartment.
Expression of what?
Ah. Then to burn the midnight oil implies late work?
I am curious. What is the etymology of that idiom? How did it come to beused in contemporary language?
It is good to see you, too, sir.
Certainly.
This will need a completely new field induction subprocessor. It appearsthat we will be required to ignite the midnight petroleum, sir.
It would appear there is a discontinuity between the time periods youdescribed. Events in one time period would seem to have no effect on the othertwo.
Aye, sir.
Computer, restore holographic image.
There is another option. We could arrange passage aboard a medical ship.
Yes, sir. There was an outbreak of Terrellian plague on Romulus. The
Doctor.
I'm not sure. Information on the Klingon political structure is hard tocome by these days. However, at last report Worf was governor of H'atoria, asmall Klingon colony near the border. 
How would you define unusual, sir? Every region of space has its ownunique properties that cannot be found anywhere else.
Nothing, sir.
Given the fact that there is an apparent discontinuity between the threetime periods the Captain has visited, Q's statement may be accurate, ifconfusing.
That is true. Q's interest in you has always been very similar to that ofa master and his beloved pet. That was only an analogy, Captain.
Captain, there are four warbirds holding position on the Romulan side ofthe Neutral Zone.
Sensors are picking up a large subspace anomaly directly ahead.
Aye, sir.
We are approaching the Devron system, Captain. Sensors are picking up alarge subspace anomaly directly ahead.
Aye, sir.
As you can see, sir, there's nothing there.
Still nothing, Captain. I've conducted a full sensor sweep out to onelight year from the Pasteur. No temporal anomalies, no particle fluctuations,nothing.
There are several methods of detecting temporal disturbances, but we'relimited by the equipment on the Pasteur.
However, it may be possible to modify the main deflector to emit aninverse tachyon pulse, which could scan beyond the subspace barrier.
To make the modifications and search the entire Devron system will takeapproximately fourteen hours.
The anomaly is two hundred million kilometres in diameter. It is a highlyfocused temporal energy source which is emitting approximately the same energyoutput as ten G type stars.
I am uncertain, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate the anomaly.
That is a most intriguing idea, sir. I do not believe a tachyon beam wasever used in such a way. I had no idea you were so versed in the intricacies oftemporal theory, sir.
I believe we can make the necessary modifications in main Engineering,sir.
Agreed. Initiating tachyon pulse.
It will take the computer some time to give us a complete picture of theanomaly's interior. I suggest we
Geordi? What is wrong?
Data to Sickbay. Medical emergency in main Engineering.
Captain, I believe I have a partial explanation. I have completed myanalysis of the anomaly. It appears to be a multi-phasic temporal convergencein the space-time continuum.
It is, in essence, an eruption of anti-time.
A relatively new concept in temporal mechanics. The relationship betweenanti-time and normal time is analogous to the relationship between antimatterand normal matter.
They would annihilate one other, causing a rupture in space. I believethis is what happened in the Devron system. The rupture may be sending outwaves of temporal energy which are disrupting the normal flow of time.
Anti-time, sir? 
That is a fascinating hypothesis. How did you formulate
Captain, another ship decloaking bearing two one five mark three one oh.
They're hailing us.
The Klingon ship is disengaging. Admiral Riker is hailing us.
But I thought you had more sense than to send a defenceless shipacross the border into hostile territory with no escort.
Approximately one hour forty five minutes, sir.
Aye, sir.
Our tachyon pulse has been unable to completely penetrate the anomaly. Ifwe had information on the centre of the phenomenon, we might have a basis forspeculation.
In theory, a tomographic imaging scanner capable of multiphasicresolution would be able to penetrate this much interference. The Daystrom
Yes, sir.
Possibly.  There is a great deal of interference, but Iam getting some readings. This is very unusual.
It appears that our tachyon pulse is converging with two other tachyonpulses at the centre of the anomaly. The other two pulses have the exact sameamplitude modulation as our own pulse. It is as if all three originated fromthe Enterprise.
Captain, what are you suggesting?
I suspect the last thing Counsellor Troi would have wanted is for the twoof you to be alienated.
I think I know what the Captain's talking about. If I'm not mistaken,he's describing a paradox.
Intriguing. It is possible we could've caused the very anomaly we've beenlooking for. Let us assume for a moment that the Captain has been travellingthrough time. Let us also assume he has initiated an tachyon pulse at the samecoordinates in space in all three time periods. In that case, it is possiblethat the convergence of three tachyon pulses could've ruptured the subspacebarrier and created an anti-time reaction.
If we go back to the Devron system now, we might be able to see theinitial formation of the anomaly.
Sensors are picking up a small temporal anomaly off the port bow.
The anomaly is being sustained by the continuing tachyon pulses in theother two time periods. I suggest shutting them down.
I will investigate the options.
Sir?
Aye, sir.
No, sir.
Aye, sir. Disengaging.
It remains unaffected here as well, sir.
It would require taking the ship into the anomaly itself. Once inside, wemay be able to use the engines to create a static warp shell.
Collapsing the anomaly and restoring the normal flow of time. But thiswould have to be done in the other two time periods as well.
I am preparing to initiate a static warp shell.
Captain, I have an idea. If we take the ship to the centre of the anomalyand create a static warp shell
Yes, sir.
At least thirty seconds, sir.
We have reached the centre, sir.
Initiating static warp shell now.
Something is happening. A new subspace barrier appears to be forming,
Captain, it appears to be working. The anomaly is beginning to collapse.
The warp shell is definitely having an effect, sir. The anomaly iscollapsing.
Both of the other ships have been destroyed.
The anomaly is nearly collapsed.
I believe, however, this situation is unique. Since the anomaly did notoccur, there have already been changes in the way this time line is unfolding.
Five card draw, deuces wild.
Would you care to deal, sir?
